Nick and Me

Big brother was mine. I’m not talking about that stupid book we had to read in junior high about how the world was gonna turn weird and everybody could see everything you were doing all the time. No, I’m talking about my real Big Brother. Nick was the guy everybody was scared of. He had a pair on him the size of steel wrecking balls. His face looked like a puzzle with the pieces held together with sticky stuff from a glue gun. He wasn’t ugly, just had a few brawls over the years to give him that rough look. It was like he rolled out of bed and forgot to comb his hair. A few scars here and there, chin and over his left eyebrow. When he walked in the bar, or the gym, people took notice, and man, did they move out of the way. I lived with him and Ma after dad took off when I was about eight. We lived downtown in a big brick apartment building on Kirk Street. A fifth-floor walk-up, so it was a real pain in the ass to haul up the groceries and stuff. Luckily, when I went to the store with Nick, he could load up with about six of those shopping bags and take them up in one trip, like he was in one of those “world’s strongest man” competitions, where they throw boulders over walls, or pull cars with just their teeth. I held the rest.

One time, when we went into Moxie’s, the gym down on the corner, one of those guys in there was doin’ preacher curls with a 40-pound bar on the curl bench. He was right in the middle of a set, but as soon as he saw Nick moving towards him, he dropped that sucker right down on the ground and offered it up. Nick just nodded at him, then took over the place. Of course, he had to have a 50-pound bar, but that was just for warm-ups. I’m not too shabby when it comes to weight lifting, but I aint gonna curl no fifty pounds as a warm-up. Hell, I aint gonna curl a 50-pound weight probably ever. That’s okay though, Nick is my brother, like I said. I know he’ll stand up for me no matter what.

Milwaukee is where we live. It’s where we lived all of our lives. Right there, on Kirk Street in that fifth floor apartment. We used to play kick ball in the alley behind the building and set up bases with dented-in garbage can lids. One time little Mark Conner kicked a ball right through old Mrs. Engel’s kitchen. Man, was she pissed. Mark was scared to death, but Nick stepped right up to her and said he was the one who did it. She called my Ma, and Ma had to pay for the window. Somehow Nick gave her cash to pay for it about a week later. I have no idea where a 12-year old came up with sixty bucks, but I was sure proud of him for that. He never told Ma that it was really Mark who did it. None of us did.

The thing about Nick was, he was a real-life Viking - you know? What I mean is we had these ancestors that came from Norway or Sweden or somewhere over there in Viking land and they came over here and stayed in Wisconsin. So, we are Vikings too, I guess. You never hear about Vikings, but they are the biggest bad-asses on the planet. I don’t care about gangsters from Mexico or China, or even Irish people. Hell, all they do is drink anyways. What I’m talking about are tall, strong people who survived in the middle of winter all the time. While other people would freeze to death, those bastards kept warm. Not only did they keep warm, but they ran around in short skirts and shit. They made canoes and Viking boats and sailed all over the place. They took over everybody back then. Nobody knows it, but half of Europe is mixed up with Viking blood.

Most of them had red hair I think. We don’t really have red hair. But I would say Nick has reddish-brown hair. Ma has brown hair and she was mostly English I guess. When I think of the way those Vikings used to live over there it makes me all proud. They had those huge swords and when somebody died, they floated them out to sea on a raft and set them on fire. That’s the way it should be. None of this taking up space with caskets and shit. Just set me on fire and float me out on a raft. It is so cool to see fire on top of water.

I guess that’s why people respect Nick and our family, even though dad took off. He is a modern-day warrior. When we go downtown to the bars, Nick always goes in first to check out the place. The bouncers are even scared of him. He likes to walk into places where everybody is running out. He’s a crazy man. He has a girlfriend most of the time, but when they get really clingy he gets rid of them. He just doesn’t need that hassle. He goes where he wants, when he wants, and does whatever he wants. Nobody questions that guy.

Nick has a job down at the local metal factory. He runs one of the assembly lines down there. Big metal pieces move past and he separates things. Sometimes he runs one of the big cranes inside that lifts the stuff up to a higher level. He said it’s pretty easy for the money. He must make a lot because he has a nice car and a pretty cool apartment down on Werner Street. He lives about five blocks from Ma and me, but he comes over a lot to take care of stuff, so it feels like he still lives here. I wish I made enough money to get my own place, but then again, someone has to be here with Ma. She’s getting older and it’s hard for her to see. Sometimes she gets up in the middle of the night and runs into furniture. I don’t want her to fall down and nobody knows about it. Ma’s had a tough life, tougher than any of us. With dad leaving, then putting up with Nick and me, that’s something else.

Nick has a cool car, like I said. It’s a 1980 Pontiac Trans Am all decked out. It’s a V8 with power everything, a T-top, and exhaust splitters. It only had one repaint job, and it’s a sweet burnt orange with yellow flames on the side, and the big eagle still on the hood. He got a great deal from some guy in Chicago who brought it up here. Only cost him 12-grand and has 75,000 miles on her. I love riding in that thing. People always look up when Nick pulls up to the lights in that car.

The other day he comes over to check on us. “What’s Ma doin’ back in the bedroom at this time of day?” he says.

“I don’t know, why?”

“You got to keep an eye on her. She shouldn’t be sleeping in the middle of the day like that. That’s how old people go downhill. They start sleepin’ all day, and pretty soon before you know it, they don’t want to go outside, or eat, or go to the store or nothing” Nick says. Nick was right. I needed to take better care of her. It was my responsibility after all, I was living there to keep an eye on her. I told him I would do a better job and make her get up and sit out in the living room with me. But even when I do that it’s a big drag. All she wants to do is watch game shows and sometimes the cooking channels. Not that she bothers to even cook anymore hardly. It’s like she’s just bored all the time. She never even bothers to call her sister, or go across the hall to talk to Mrs. Canasta. They used to talk and hang out all the time. I don’t know what’s wrong with her.

Ma worked for years being a janitor for the school system. She worked real hard everyday. Those little kids are just pigs. Somebody is always throwing up in the hallway, or spraying urine all over the bathroom. She’s probably cleaned up more kid’s snot and puke than anyone else I know. She started having back problems and had to take retirement. She doesn’t get very much money every month, but also collects some social security. Between her and me with my pizza job money, we make ends meet. It’s not always pretty. There’s a lot of pizza and macaroni around here. But what are you gonna do?

This is the real problem as I see it. I can’t afford to go back to school and study to get a “real” job, because somebody has to take care of Ma. Nick says, “You don’t need a degree to get a good job. All you need is to know somebody and you will get a good job someday. That’s how it always happens.”

Do you think he could get me a job at the metal factory though? No, he never even tries. Even when I complain and beg for him to talk to his boss about me, he won’t do it. I don’t know what all that’s about. But, if Nick doesn’t want me down there – there has to be a reason for it. “What kind of shit do you want to take at school anyway?” Nick says. “All that crap is just a bunch of nerds talking to hear themselves talk. Nobody ever learned anything in college that you can use in the real world. The real world is here – where we live. You’re not gonna be a doctor or lawyer or anything like that. Hell, you’re too old anyway.”

Nick is right. I am too old. I haven’t got the brains to go to school. Besides, I have to take care of Ma and just do the best I can with what I got. No one ever died and wished they spent more time in a classroom; all the time they were just wishing they could be done. I do like reading though. I don’t tell nobody that. It doesn’t matter anyway.

2 The reason why I’m telling you all this stuff, is because something weird is happening to me. I can’t really tell Nick, or Ma, or Bobby down at the pizza joint, because they wouldn’t understand. Hell, I don’t understand what’s happening.

See, this one day I rode my bike to work, and just as I was walking down the sidewalk and into the front door of the pizza place, this girl tripped over the cement while she was walking toward me. She kind of fell into me. She fell and just kind of brushed into me with her shoulder. She had kind of short brown hair and was skinny. Not too skinny, but good looking in a way. The first thing I did was say, “Are you okay?” and she said, “Yes” and looked down at herself and brushed off her shirt. She was wearing a black short sleeved shirt with a V-neck. The kind of shirt you can get real cheap at Target or Walmart. She looked pretty good. She had on a necklace with some kind of fish symbol on it. She had jeans, and blue tennis shoes and a big backpack. We just kind of looked at each other and didn’t know what to say. So I finally said, “I work here, I’m just going to work. What is your name?”

“Sionna” she said.

“Sionna? That’s different. I never heard of that. What does that mean?” She started to tell me that her mom and dad named her after an Irish goddess, and then something about the River Shannon. I wasn’t really listening though, because she had the coolest eyes I ever saw. They were a real light blue color, and reminded me of the sky, like right before the sun comes up, when it’s still dark, but you can tell it’s blue. I asked her if she wanted to come in and have some pizza. She said, “No thanks, I don’t eat pizza, but if you want to go have a cup of coffee sometime, you can call me.” I was a little freaked out. I never had a girl ask me out. Not that she was really asking me out, but it kind of felt like that to me. It came out of her like it was no big deal. She spoke like cool blue, like the cool blue of her eyes. I got her phone number and told her I would call her later on.

Now, this might not seem weird to you, but like I said no girl has ever been interested in me. She was not what I would describe as being “cute” but I would say she was “pretty”. She had that real pale skin, the kind you would see in some kind of English story. Like one of those old stories from a long time ago, when women wore big huge dresses and piled their hair up on their heads. She should have been holding a fan or something.

When she walked away from me, she looked back over her shoulder kind of, like she was trying to remember what I was going to look like tomorrow when she wasn’t seeing me. It made me feel a little weird inside, like someone was lookin’ right through me or something. That wasn’t the weirdest thing though-here’s the weird thing that I can’t tell nobody. It was like I “knew” her or something. Like I had seen her somewhere before. But I didn’t, I would have remembered somebody like her. She seemed mysterious. I guess I would use a word here I have heard – intense-yea, that’s it, she was intense.

I just watched her walk away. She moved real smooth. It was like there wasn’t any bones in her body. It reminded me of the waves I saw when I went to the ocean out by New Jersey once. We had an aunt and uncle that lived out there, and before dad left, we went on a family vacation to see them. This was the only time I remember going on a vacation with my family. But anyway, we got to see the ocean. It was so cool. I thought the waves were the coolest thing I ever saw. I liked the way they sounded when they came up onto the land. That’s how I felt when I looked at her. I felt like when I stood at that one place with my feet in the sand and they said the tides were coming in….pretty soon you have to move up or you’ll get covered with water. That was like Sionna, except she was washing up on me, and I didn’t want to move my feet, I just wanted her to cover me completely.

3 That day I met Sionna, when I got home, Ma was in a crazy mood. She was looking around the house mumbling to herself about trying to find her pain pills. She had her pills all out on the counter in a straight line so we didn’t have to mess with trying to figure out what to give her everyday. She would take a pill from the front bottle, move it to the back of the line, and so on. She did pretty good with it. That was one thing she did remember. That way, I didn’t have to be around constantly telling her what she was supposed to be taking.

She knew about this, but seemed confused.

“Ma, what’s the matter?” I asked.

“I can’t find my pain pills, I know I put them here somewhere. Did we go to church today? Did you see Mrs. Canasta there?”

Okay, this was definitely weird. We hadn’t been to church for over fifteen years, and I aint seen Mrs. Canasta for at least the last year.

“Ma, what are you talking about? We don’t go to church anymore. Mrs. Canasta lives down one level, all’s you have to do is walk down there and see her if you want. Your pills are right in front of you in the box for today.”

She gave me this look I never saw before from Ma. Her eyes were all glassy and looked really empty. It was like she didn’t know who I was or something. She snapped out of it though, and said, “Oh, right, I am so sorry. I see them right here. I don’t know what got into me.” Wow, she was losing it. I would have to tell Nick about this. I’m sure he’ll get mad or something –like it was my fault. Later on I went down to Joe’s to get a beer. I had to get out of the apartment. Ma was freaking me out. Chances are, I would see Nick down there. He always came down on Mondays to watch football on T.V. Everybody would sit around, or play pool, or darts, and start B.Sing about crap that went on that day. It made Mondays not seem so bad after all.

So I was sitting at the bar watching the Packers game – this was a big one against the Bears –when Nick came in. He slapped me on the back.

“Hey, little brother. What’s shakin’?” he said.

“I don’t know. Nothin’.”

“What’s the matter? I can tell you’re hidin’ something. What’s goin’ on?” I told him the story of Ma being all confused. Like I thought, he started getting pissed off. “I knew she would start going crazy cooped up in that place all day” he said. “Why don’t you take her to the store or something? Holy Christ, do something with her before she turns into some demented old fart and we have to pay for a nursing home or something. I don’t have the money for that shit. Do you know how expensive that is? They take every last dime out of these old people, then leave the family in debt after they die. Is that what you want to happen?” “Of course not. I just needed to get away from her for a while, that’s all.” He gave me that look like he wanted to punch me in the face. It was a little scary. I don’t think he would actually do it, but I’ve seen what he can do, and I don’t want that damage. He was right, of course, I did need to get home and watch Ma. I paid for my beer and told him I would watch it at home with her and I promised to get her out tomorrow and at least take a walk. “That’s more like it,” he said.

God, sometimes I really hate Nick inside. I mean, he’s done so much for us, but at the same time, inside I really get tired of his shit. I would never tell anybody this, but I do get tired of it. It was freakin’ cold outside, and I walked a little faster than normal. When I looked up, I saw the library across the street and just halfway down the block. I should go in there, I thought. Who’s gonna know anyway? Ma can barely remember what the hell is going on, and Nick won’t know.

I walked real fast over there and saw they were open till 9 o’clock, so I had a little time. What do people do in here anyways? I started looking around. There were lots of tables with people sitting reading newspapers and magazines. Then there was a desk in the front where a lady was moving books around behind her. This place was much bigger than I thought. There was stairs going to another floor. The windows were really big and the floors must have been wood from a hundred years ago. It smelled kind of old, but there was something attractive about it too. Old lights hung down on metal chains from the ceiling over the tables and down the aisles with all the books in them. I started thinking if anyone had the time to read all the stuff in here. Probably not. You probably couldn’t read all this stuff in a million years. It would make people smarter though, I bet.

“How do I take a book home from here?” I asked the lady at the desk.

“Do you have a library card?” she asked.

“No, how do I get one of those?”

She showed me this piece of paper and I wrote down my name and address. Then she gave me a “temporary” paper card. She said a plastic one would be mailed to me within the week. That was cool, cause I got the mail anyway. It was like I could get anything in here for free. Who needed school anyway when you could get the same thing for free in the library? What stupid shit spends his money on classes when everything is right here, in this building? I had no idea what I wanted in this place, but I just started walking down the rows looking at all the books. For some reason I ended up in the “classic literature” area and saw all these books by Shakespeare, Dickens, Eliot, Dumas, and Wilde. There was so many I didn’t know which one to pick out, but I thought they were all important if they were in that section, so I just picked out “Wuthering Heights” by a lady named Emily Bronte. I checked out the book with the lady at the desk, who gave me a thin little smile, and then walked home in the cold. Shit, I missed the whole game. Just as well, Chicago won by a touchdown anyway. Ma was already in bed when I got there. Since there was nothing to do, I started reading that book. It was pretty weird at first, because it was about a place in England a long time ago. It was about a guy named Heathcliff and a girl named Catherine. So far, it was a little like a soap opera. There was a lot of people doing different things, but I got the feeling that these two really loved each other.

This reminded me of Sionna. I needed to call her, I thought I would do it in the morning since it was kind of late already. When I went to bed, I kept thinking of her. Somehow in my dream I mixed up Sionna and Catherine from the book. It was Sionna’s face, but she was wearing old clothes, and riding horses and running through the outdoors all happy. I can’t remember if I was in this or not. I just got this feeling though that I would end up feeling for her just like Heathcliff did in the book.

4 The next day I woke up and Ma was at the kitchen table drinking her coffee. We sat there as usual just looking at each other with nothing to say really. I asked her what she did last night. Why didn’t she stay up till I got home? I tried to talk her into going for a walk. You would have thought I asked her to run a marathon or something. She gave me every excuse in the book. “It’s so cold outside. I don’t have a nice coat to wear. Where are we going anyway?” It just went on and on and on. Finally, I just gave up. If Nick wants her to go outside so bad, then he can drag his ass over here and get her to go.

Of course, she probably would if Nick asked her. She listens to everything he says. He could ask her to swim across Lake Michigan, and she would probably try it for him. I swear sometimes, there’s no reason for me being born anyway, except to have somebody for Nick to boss around. One time, Nick told her he was getting serious about this girl he had. Like that was really going to happen. Anyways, Ma went so out of her way to smother this girl, it was so ridiculous. Having her over for steak dinners, inviting her for Thanksgiving, and trying to meet her parents – the whole deal. She was so deep in this shit that when Nick broke it off (of course), she went haywire. She didn’t stop crying and sobbing for a week. I think she thinks she’s never having any grandkids.

The more I thought about that whole situation, the more pissed off I got, so I told Ma I was leaving for a little while. I would see her in a couple hours. When I got outside, I found the phone number Sionna gave me. I was shaking and wondering if she would even remember me at all.

“Hi.”

“Hi, Sionna? This is the guy that got your number the other day outside of the pizzeria. Do you remember me?”

“Of course I do. How are you doing?” she asked.

“Fine, ummm, I was wondering if you want to go for that cup of coffee.” “Absolutely.” She sounded so sure of herself, like she knew I was going to call at just that minute and had it all planned out.

We decided to meet downtown at a coffee shop called The Java Hut. I had seen this place, but never been in there. Mostly, because the people inside all looked like they were right out of a college magazine. Everybody carried around backpacks and textbooks. They sat around in groups talking about school and looking at their notes with each other, drinking coffee. Glasses sliding on and off of their heads as they made their points on different things they learned that day. It was just a little too cool for me, so I never stepped foot in the place – until now.

I walked in, and saw her near the wall in the back at a small table. She had a backpack too. What are we doing? Homework? I didn’t care though, because when I looked at her I didn’t see her washed out jeans, her soft leather shoes, or her long-sleeved loose green top with a hood. All I saw were those eyes, they were like a watery blue crayon. When I looked into them, I lost all track of time and forgot who I was and what I was doing. I decided, she really was beautiful. I asked her if she ever went to school. Of course she did. She had a degree in English and loved to read and write stories. Turns out she knew a lot about history and a million other things. I felt like a complete dumbass. I was sure she never wanted to see me again. “What are you reading right now?” she asked.

Thinking of the good luck I had actually going to the library last night, I answered, “Wuthering Heights. It’s the story of this guy and girl and how they grew apart but were really in love with each other.”

“Yea, I know. I read it.”

Duh, how stupid of me. Of course she read it.

What happened over the next half hour, though, made me think about the book in ways I never could have imagined. She talked to me about symbols in the book: about ghosts, and double characters, and the moors. The environment of the book was like its people. They were wild and unpredictable and infertile. The love that Heathcliff has for Catherine never changes, but in the end that kind of love destroys him. A love that never changes will destroy you. It reminded me of the way Nick is; strong and unwavering, but somehow it seemed dumb. I wondered if it would destroy him in the end too.

Something inside of me was coming awake. It was something I never felt before. It was like I could talk to Sionna about anything and she wouldn’t think it was stupid. I wanted to be around her more, and talk to her more. She was so smart; even though smart isn’t the right word for it. She was interesting. More interesting than any person I ever met before in my life. She made me feel smarter just by being around her. I thought that was impossible, but I guess not. Actually, I guess I was getting smarter by being around her, because she had a way of teaching me things I never knew I really wanted to know. But, the more she talked, the better I felt. We made another date to go to dinner on Friday night. I couldn’t wait. As I walked away and down the street to the bus stop, I thought again about love that can end up killing you if you don’t let it go where it’s supposed to. Maybe that was Ma’s problem all along. Dad left, and Ma never moved on. It just ended up destroying her. Even if dad came back today, Ma would probably still forgive him. Forgive him for all the pain, the extra work, and lack of money. Forgive him for missing out on his kids growing up, the baseball games, and graduations. Forgive him for not being there to support her when times were tough, and she didn’t know what to do next. All she wants is that same guy, at that same time, doing that same thing he always did. I’m sure she wouldn’t care about any of the crap, she’d just be happy.

Well, I knew one thing – there aint no way I could ever forgive him. He is the lowest of the low. He left his whole family and made them raise themselves. He didn’t give two shits about us. Not to mention, it’s because he left that I’m in the place I am. No college, not a decent job, and above all, I have to listen to Nick. Let’s face it, Nick became my dad when I was eight. It’s a damn shame.

I would never do that. I don’t care if the woman I marry drives me freaking crazy, there’s just no cause to leave. People have responsibility. It is a guy’s duty to stand up for his family and take care of them. That’s how good kids are made. For me, the more time you spend doing something, the better off that thing will be. If you want to be a body builder, you have to lift the weights every day. If you want to be a good mechanic, you got to work on cars every day. Practice really does make perfect. Hell, I make a good pizza because I do it every day. I’m not saying being a parent is easy. Shit no, I saw how Ma suffered. I’m just saying the more you practice being a good parent, the better the kids will be in the end. Maybe that’s why there’s so many shitty people in the world, cause nobody is practicing being a parent. 5 The sun is shining through the trees. Millions of specks of sunlight shine down on me and around me. The forest is thick and lush green foliage brushes against the brown mare I ride on. This is a deciduous forest from long ago. Moss grows thick on the north sides of the beautiful muscled bark on the oak and maple species. Varied woodland plants adorn the forest floor. Wood sorrel grows thickly under the softly treading hooves of the horse. Trillium offer up their creamy white and pink colors, and bleeding hearts show vibrant purples and pinks. The smell is intoxicating, but not as intoxicating as the smell of her neck. Her long brown hair hangs limply down to the small of her back. I am sitting very close behind her, holding on around her waist. Occasionally, I lean forward to place my face next to her neck in order to smell her distinct scent. It was like a mix of rose and warm grass.

We traveled slowly through the underbrush toward an open field. The sun there was uninterrupted by any growth like the forest environment we had just emerged from. It was a warm day. Still – with the long blades of grass drooping slightly, inviting the small flying insects to alight on them, only to suddenly buzz franticly the next second to a new blade. We paused in the center of the grassy field and I jumped to the ground in order to help her down to meet me. With arms outstretched, I notice the fine linen of my white sleeves, ballooning out in the open air. An embroidered red tunic covers my chest and torso, leading to the brown hose beneath. I reach for her, and lift her gently as she drops down from the trusty dappled mare we rode upon. Her face is fair, heart-shaped, unlike the hundreds of everyday faces seen among our people. Something here stands out. I can feel such strong emotion, as if the connection between us is palpable electricity. The charge draws us towards each other and we embrace. I kiss her, and somehow I know this is the first kiss we have shared. It is the finest hour of my life. I am falling in love with this woman. Never have I been this vulnerable, allowing a woman to take all of my strength. I surrender completely and she is mine. I am drowning in her. I look into her eyes, and they are the lightest blue, like the early morning light.

“Hold!” I screamed, as I bolted upright in bed. My stomach was tight, my chest pounding like a drum. I was sweating, even though it was cold in my room. What the hell was that? I hardly ever dreamed anything. I remember it all though. There was a girl with me on the horse, a forest, and then we stopped in the field. I helped her off the horse and kissed her. The weird thing was the clothes. I really felt like I was in a movie about old kings and stuff. It was like it was my life for real. I knew that girl! It was Sionna, but in a different place with old clothes on. What is happening? Did I insert these people from life into some kind of Wuthering Heights book? That must have been it. The whole thing was make-believe. It had to be make-believe. Didn’t it? 6 As it turns out, there are a lot of people (I mean writers and such), who have said a lot of things about beauty. I read this in the library one day last week, “Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.” Well, I don’t know about that. The pizza parlor aint so beautiful, and neither is taking care of Ma, or Nick either. Hell, Nick doesn’t have one beautiful thing about him as far as I’m concerned. One thing I do know though, is somebody said that beauty is only skin deep, and that is definitely not true. I have started to find that some people are beautiful inside as well as out. Sionna is one of those people. I could talk to her all day and then some. After I talk to her, I have to have another day just to think about what we talked about. I told her about my crazy dream. She just smiled and looked through me with those watery eyes. She didn’t think it was crazy though.

She said that some people think dreaming is real, and being awake is not. What the hell? “Did you know that Buddhists consider everything around us to be a dream?” she said. I said, “I don’t get that. I’m sitting in a chair, I’m breathing air, and I’m looking at you. How could all this be just fake?”

“Well, it’s not fake, it’s just not something that will last for more than the present moment we are experiencing it. That doesn’t mean that it’s not a chair. It just means that soon it won’t be a chair. Once it was a tree, now it’s a chair, and someday it will just be rotted and return to the earth, to maybe grow into a tree again and start all over. The cycle of life is ever-changing. We have to be prepared to change with it, to be willing to let go of things, and also accept things that happen to us, without grasping onto them.”

We continue to talk about this for a while. She said some cultures believe we receive messages from spiritual guides while sleeping, or can tell the future through dreams, or just manage our thoughts so that we don’t go nuts thinking about stuff day after day. Whatever dreams really are – or aren’t – I did feel better talking to her about this. “Maybe you were dreaming about something from a past life” she said.

Well, if that was a past life, I wish I could go back there. It was so beautiful, and peaceful. I liked being out in the open with the horse, and the girl – especially the girl. If that was me, was Sionna the girl in the dream? I really hoped so. Maybe that’s why we got along so well. Nobody ever wanted to talk to me about my dreams before. She made me feel like I belonged somewhere; like I really mattered. I wasn’t just a guy who make pizzas, or somebody that took care of my Ma, or somebody’s pesky little brother. For once I felt like I was important in some way. I just wasn’t sure what way yet.

If people were measured by the beauty inside of them, instead of outside, Sionna would be a “10” for sure. I’m not saying that she’s not good looking either, because she is. I’m just saying the more you’re around her, the more beautiful she becomes. I started to think that being blind might not be so bad if I had someone like her around me to talk to. I didn’t even have too many thoughts yet about sex with her. I thought about it when I wasn’t around her, but when we did see each other, we got so busy talking, that it just wasn’t in my head, if you know what I mean. When we talked about something, I would go to the library and try to read about it, so I wouldn’t feel so dumb. The thing is, I started to really like reading about all sorts of stuff. Talking about dreams made me read about Sigmund Freud. He was this German guy who started the whole “psychotherapy” thing. He came up with the ego, and dream analysis. It seems like everything he talked about was sexual. He thought that dreams told us what was in our subconscious, the stuff in our heads we don’t always know is there. If that’s true, then in my subconscious I want to ride a horse, live in olden times, and fall in love with a girl. Sounds good to me.

7 Sionna and I continued to meet on a regular basis. Most of the time, we just sat around and talked at the Java Hut, or walked in the park, or went to museums. Let's just say I hadn't spent much time hanging out in museums as a kid. Hell, I only went in one if there was a field trip or something I had to do in school. It got pretty interesting though. Seems to me that a lot of these old painters were crazier than shit. Either they were alcoholics, or committed suicide, or cut their ears off or something. Sionna said something like, "intelligence borders insanity" or something like that. I think I've never known anyone smart enough to be considered insane, just insane people who were also dumb. Which leads me to telling you about the weirdest thing I've ever done, so far. I could never tell anybody, because then I would be one of those insane people. I found myself lying on a purple rectangle mat closing my eyes and thinking about breathing. I felt like the stupidest person on earth. The funny thing was, there were about twenty other people lying there doing the same thing I was. I don't know how she talked me into this one, but I tried yoga. She told me it was centuries old, and could help me calm my mind, increase my lung capacity, and help me stay young forever physically. Sounded like a miracle drug or something. I was wearing a t-shirt, and shorts, which, as it turns out, is not exactly the thing to wear to yoga. There is a lot of leaning upside down, spreading your legs apart, and this weird doggie position, were my shirt kept falling down over my face. I had to finally tuck the shirt into my pants so I could see what was going on. I thought yoga sounded pretty easy. You stand, you sit, you lay down - whatever. What I found out was this crap was hard. During it I felt completely out of breath all the time, dizzy half the time, and just plain out of shape. My groins felt like someone pulled me apart, just like a stretch Armstrong. My lower back was aching, and my shoulders hurt. I couldn't do all the push-up things, so I felt like a wimp. Here's the weirdest thing of all though - after it was over, I felt so relaxed, like I just woke up after sleeping all night. And talk about calm, I wouldn't care if someone called me or Nick a big pussy right to our faces. I just wouldn't care at all. What's that about? I didn't feel violent, or mad, or really anything. Just calm. Not that I'm the meanest person anyway, but I usually would stand up for myself for cryin’ out loud.

"You were really great at that" Sionna said.

"Are you kidding me?"

"No, you caught on very quickly, and I have the feeling you liked it. You did like it, didn't you?"

"Um, yeah. Yeah! I did like it! I just felt so dumb. I don't know why." "That's pretty common for the first few times. You'll get the hang of it, and then you'll understand the process", she said.

"What do you mean, the process?"

"Well, it's true what they say. Your practice is your practice. The only thing that matters is what's going on on your mat. Pretty soon you won't even notice anyone else or what they're doing."

"Yeah, well, my practice is not the best practice."

"That's why they call it 'practice', haha."

We both smiled at that one. I guess if all I'm doing is practicing, then I never have to be perfect. Also, I guess no one is ever "done". I had to hurry up and go home to change for work. It was the best night of work ever. I can't explain it, but making pizzas didn't bother me. Cleaning up didn't bother me. The asshole customers didn't bother me. Nothing. I was just happy to be there, which I don't think has ever happened to me before, unless you count payday, when I was just happy to be getting a check.

8 Geez, Nick is pissed off. I get home and he's stomping around the place getting Ma all upset about something. Seems I haven't been around a lot, and he's mad at me. He gives me this look like he wants to kill me or something. I don't know what to say. I'm trying not to cringe, but he's so mad.

“What’s going on Nick?” I ask, trying to keep as calm as possible. I don’t want to look afraid in front of him. It’s just not cool.

“Ma missed her doctor’s appointment yesterday, you ass. Where the hell were you? Don’t you remember your responsibilities around here? Now we have to wait two more weeks because they can’t fit her in. What were you doing yesterday that was so important anyway?” His lips were in a tight line, and his face was getting red. I could see him clenching his fists, moving them in and out.

“I totally forgot. I’m sorry, I was with someone” I said.

“With someone? What the hell is that? With who?” Nick was trying not to lose it completely, and Ma just sat in her chair looking at us like nothing was up. “I met a girl, and we had a couple dates. That’s all.”

Nick just stared at me with those black eyes and fire coming out the top of his head. “Oh, great. A girl. That’s worth all this. Don’t you think Ma deserves better than that? Try looking at your priorities Bro, you just might learn something.”

“I said I was sorry!” I was trying to explain, but he just turned around and walked out, slamming the door in my face.

That’s all I need. Nick mad at me. What a mess this was. I would have to talk to him soon, because I didn’t know when I would have to get Ma to the doctor now. I thought maybe tomorrow or the next day I would call him and see if he would even speak to me. I hardly ever get into it with Nick. I just don’t like arguing with people – especially Nick. He’s responsible and everything, but you just don’t know what he is going to do.

One time, back when he was in high school, I remember him getting so pissed off at this one kid named Steve. I think Steve said something mean to Nick’s girlfriend, and she came to him crying about it. Nick was so mad. He went over to that kid’s house in the middle of the night, took a can of lighter fluid, and sprayed it around his front yard a little bit, then he set that crap on fire! I couldn’t believe it. And he got away with it too. One of his friends was there and saw him do it, but like I said, everybody is afraid of Nick, so the guy said nothing. I didn’t find out until Nick told me one night at the bar a couple years ago. What a set of balls. I am usually proud that Nick is my brother, but the question is, would I want Sionna to meet Nick? I can’t imagine they could even communicate with each other. He is so off the handle, and she has herself together so well. He wouldn’t even understand her, and she definitely might be afraid of him, I know I would if I was a girl.

In my mind I was trying to figure out how I could make all the people in my life fit together. Ma, Nick, Sionna; they are all so different. Each one needs some special thing, some special care. Ma needs me. She needs me to take her places, make sure she gets medicine and her pills. She can’t even be trusted to sleep alone. Nick needs me because he needs me to take care of Ma. Sionna needs me. Sionna needs me? Where did I get that one? Maybe I was just hoping she needs me, without really knowing. It’s true she tells me stuff that makes me feel that way. She says I give her “insight”. Not sure how I do that. The other day we were talking about trees and how they change color in the fall. She told me the sugars get caught in the leaves. It’s like the trees are shutting down for the winter. The sugars get caught in the leaves and it makes them turn spectacular colors. I said something like, “Sometimes when people get caught in bad situations, they change into something better – just like leaves.” She said that was beautiful. I never had anyone tell me that something I said was beautiful before.

Come to think of it, I didn’t remember Ma or Dad or Nick ever telling me anything too great. Ma would say that I was helpful around the house. I was her “little helper” way back when. I didn’t mind. I figured Ma needed all the help she could get, especially after Dad left. Then there was Nick. He and me - we were always a team as far as he was concerned. When we were little, we would pretend to be super heroes or ninjas out to conquer the world together. He was always the leader, and I was the follower. When I had an idea of my own, he wouldn’t play, so I just let him take the lead role. He still is like that. I can’t tell you the last time he actually let me do something without his say-so. It was starting to piss me off a little bit. “You need to work less night shifts so you can be home to watch Ma.”

“You have to stop worrying about owning a car. I have one and you live close enough to work to ride the bike.” He was always saying crap like that.

I don’t know. Someday I swear I’m gonna have a better job, a house of my own, a car, and hopefully a girl just like Sionna. I have to get out of here. I’m going to the library. 9 I ended up in a section of the library with exercise books, and there in front of me were lots of book on yoga, so I picked one out. Next to this I came across a section on world religion. I had never thought too much about religion, but my mind drifted back to a couple conversations Sionna and I had about Buddhist thinking, so I checked out one of those too. She wanted me to keep going to yoga with her. I have to tell you I was happy to do it. It felt weird at first, like my body was made of metal pipes and everyone else’s was made of bendable pipe cleaners, but hey, that’s okay. She said we all start out stiff and the more you go, the more bendable you become. We’ll see about that I guess.

I started to read the book about Buddhism. It made me stop and think. This part I read was about attachment, and how attaching ourselves to other people or things will make us miserable and cause suffering. The problem is that we are all looking for happiness, and the book says we look for happiness in the outside world, instead of realizing that the way we think about things can make us happy. People start wishing for more money and houses and stuff, when all that does is cause suffering, because people are missing the point. The more they have, the more they want, and that leads to never-ending searching for more stuff, or “happiness”. The point is that all things are really one thing. It says that we are not separate from all other things – there is no separation to begin with, so we can end our quest for things outside of us, because things are all inside of us. I was trying to understand this. It said that meditating on the present moment is the best way to come to this “realization”. It said that Buddhism is about practicing these thoughts, not about just believing something, but really “experiencing” it. It said that life is suffering, and the cause of suffering is the search for things. Once we have things, they change, which leads to more suffering. It did say there was hope though. The hope was that through meditation and changing our minds, we can release ourselves from suffering, because we become enlightened and live only for the present moment. That was really cool. I never thought about things like this before. I had to talk to Sionna about it.

I called her up and told her I wished she would finally come over to my place, and even meet my Ma. She wasn’t really surprised, just a little hesitant. She said, “Are you sure? It’s kind of a big deal to meet your mother.”

“Hell, she probably won’t even remember meeting you when she wakes up the next morning. She’s so forgetful now” I responded.

We talked a little more.

“What I really need to talk to you about is some stuff I read in a book about Buddhism.” “Oh” she responded. “I didn’t know you were interested in Buddhism.”

“Well, remember when we were talking about meditating?” I said.

“Sure.”

“I think I want to try it sometime.” I felt a little stupid about saying it, but it was true. I felt like since I met Sionna, I wanted to try new stuff. I wanted to feel things that I never felt before. I wanted to feel how I felt when I was with her – fresh, new, and looking forward to the future. I suddenly felt that I was growing up or something. I was starting to feel like a real person. I mean, it’s not like I wasn’t a real person. That would be dumb to think. But, a person by myself - without Nick, without Ma, without my job and apartment and belongings. It was just me – a person by myself.

“You’ve already tried it silly”, she said.

“What are you talking about?”

“You are meditating at the end of every yoga practice. You know, when we just lie there at the end – in Savasana, or corpse pose.”

She was right, of course. At the end of every yoga class, we have to just lie there and close our eyes. Your body is so tired of moving and stretching, it’s like a huge relief to do it. Your brain thinks of all kinds of stuff, but then, there’s just peace. Now I knew that I could do this at home. I could sit in a chair, or lay on my bed, or on the floor and just “zone out”. I was ready to zone out.

When I hung up the phone, I went out to the living room to sit with Ma. She was watching one of her crazy game shows.

“How’s it goin’ Ma?” I said.

“What? Oh, it’s you.” She had this funny confused look to her, almost like she didn’t know me or something.

“Are you okay Ma?” I started to get worried.

“Oh, I don’t know. It just feels like my heart is going to jump out of my chest! It’s so strange, the feeling I have right now. I’m a little dizzy too.”

I didn’t like the sound of that. I decided to call Dr. Carson. He had been seeing Ma for the last ten years or so. The nurse told me I should bring her in that afternoon. That was just great. I was going to have to call in sick for work, so I could get Ma to the doctor. Nick wouldn’t be out of work for a while, and we had to ride the bus about three miles to the office. Whatever. I get so sick of doing this shit. I didn’t sign up to be a nurse, but it sure feels like I am. When we got to the doctor’s office, I sat in a chair by the window and stared outside. The sky was grey, with clouds hanging low. There were people walking down the street, and the sound of a siren somewhere off in the distance. All of a sudden the nurse called my name. I almost jumped out of my chair. I thing I really did zone out there for a minute. I followed her back to one of the room down the hallway. I walked in and Dr. Carson came toward me. “Hello, I’m Dr. Carson. I think I may have met you before. You’re the younger son, right?”

“Yeah, that’s right. Uh, how’s she doin’ Doc?”

“Well, that’s what I wanted to discuss with you. Your mother is fine. She is settled in another room. The thing is, I want to talk to you about her blood pressure.” “Her blood pressure? What’s the matter with it? She’s been takin’ her pills. I know it, I make sure she takes them religiously.”

The doctor looked me straight in the eye, with a very serious look. Then he says, “Your mother’s blood pressure is dangerously high. It’s so high, I’m afraid of the risk of a stroke. My advice is that you take her directly to the emergency room and we admit her for observation. She will receive blood pressure medicine intravenously until we can get her stabilized.” “Whoa man. I can’t believe this. Are you sure it’s that bad?” I said. This was the last thing I expected, or hell, needed, today. That’s it, I was going to have to call Nick to leave work and pick us up.

“Your mother has been confused, is that right? And she also experienced chest pressure this afternoon?” He was starting to right stuff down on a paper pad in front of him. “Yeah, that’s right. She hasn’t been acting to normal lately.” I hated to tell him the hundreds of times she didn’t act normal. I forgot what it was like for her to act normal anyway. I thought of Ma and all the years I had known her. She was always quiet, but when she talked to us, she always had something to say that really made sense. She was, as far as I could remember, the most reasonable member of the family. But now, now she rambles on about shit that no one cares about, people that are dead, and stuff that happened a long time ago, like it just happened yesterday. She was definitely off her rocker, and we had to get her back on. I talked to the doctor some more, called Nick (who was pissed, of course), and arranged to take her into the emergency room. Dr. Carson called the hospital and told them she was coming. Nick shows up and asks, “What the hell is this all about now?” and we explained the situation. Ma didn’t seem too concerned. She did keep holding onto her chest and saying that she heard ringing in her ears. “Someone must be talking about me.” She said. That’s right Ma, we’re all talking about you. We got her in the car and took off.

10 It turned out they only kept Ma in the hospital for three days. Nick tried to come when he was off work, but I was there pretty much all of the time, and went to work in the afternoon. Sionna met me at the hospital one day for lunch and we walked outside and around the neighborhood. It did my mind a load of good to get out of that place. Hospitals are so depressing. When I saw Sionna though, my heart did a little dance in my chest. Her eyes sparkled like diamonds. I know that sounds really queer, but it’s true. Her eyes did look like light blue diamonds. She made me feel excited and calm all at the same time. Excited because I couldn’t wait to see her again when she left. Calm because she had this way of talking to me that made me feel really special – like I was the only guy in the world she wanted to talk to. That never happened to me before. All this was new, and I loved it. Actually, I think I loved her, I just hadn’t told her yet.

I fell asleep in the chair in Ma’s room after Sionna left on the second day Ma was there. In the dream I was a soldier of some sort. I just remember there was total chaos around me. People were yelling and screaming. Blood was on the ground. Blades of shining steel were being thrust around and into other men. I felt exhausted and sad. I had just killed a man and was standing over his body. He tried to talk, but the only word that came out was “Save her” and blood bubbled out of his mouth. I was confused and trying to understand what he was talking about. Who is “her”? Just as I stood to walk away, I turned slowly around to my left and in the middle of dozens of men screaming and falling, Nick was running towards me. “Nick! Nick! Thank God you’re here! I thought I was going to die.”

“That you are little brother” he hissed at me, and then suddenly stabbed the longest knife I have ever imagined into my chest. I couldn’t believe it. Nick had killed me – Nick had killed me. I woke up gasping for breath; my heart pounding in my chest. I was still at the hospital. Ma was dozing off in her bed. That was the weirdest thing ever. I still felt like it was real. Why would Nick want to kill me? Me? His little brother. I felt betrayed and so confused. It took me a good fifteen minutes to come out of it and tell myself it was only a dream. Still, for the rest of the day I had an awful feeling. It was the feeling of betrayal by my closest family member. That had to be the worst betrayal of all.

I didn’t have much time to think about this weird dream, because I was getting Ma all set up to come home. The nurses and Dr. Carson spent a lot of time with me, making sure I knew how important it was for Ma to stay on her blood pressure medications. She also had some pills called Nitro, that she could use in case she had chest pain. It didn’t sound like they were as worried about a heart attack as they were about her stroking out from her high blood pressure. She also had a little bit of what they call “dementia”, or as far as I can describe it, just old people’s brain. Sionna went with me to the drug store and we bought a plastic container labeled with all the days of the week, Sunday through Saturday. This way, we could put all of Ma’s pills for the week inside, and nobody would get confused (like her). I felt pretty good about all of it really. For the first time in my life, things were starting to go right. I was going to be responsible for keeping Ma alive. I had a girlfriend that really liked me. My Ma liked her too, I think. As far as Nick goes, that one I’m not so sure about. He hadn’t met Sionna yet, and I was in no big hurry for that. I loved my brother, but he could be pretty harsh. I didn’t want her to run away because of him.

Later that night, while Sionna went to her philosophy class, I got Ma all tucked in, explained to her the pill routine, and showed her the container. “See Ma, right here is every day of the week, and every day will have the pills in in you need. There’s even separations for morning and night”

“Oh my Lord, that looks a little overwhelming” she said eyeing the plastic blue container suspiciously.

“No worries Ma. I’m goin’ to be here to make sure everything is okay, and make sure you get the right pill at the right time.”

She looked up at me with those tired brown eyes of hers. “You’re such a good boy. You and Nick are like a God-send to me. What would I do without you two?”

I had to think to myself. “You two?” Like Nick was ever around anymore to take care of anything. That was a laugh. The only thing Nick did lately was criticize me for anything he could think of. Speak of the Devil, in walked Nick. His face was the usual beet red, eyes wild with some kind of inner rage. His hair all helter-skelter was framing his pox-marked face. I swear sometimes he looked like he came straight out of prison. Like he just broke loose and was looking for vengeance – a kind of vengeance you see in a war movie.

“What’s up little Bro? You got Ma all tucked in? Man, you shoulda been a nurse!” he laughed so loud I thought he would wake Ma up.

“Knock it off man. Somebody has to make sure she stays on track. Where have you been?” I sounded accusingly.

“Don’t start giving ME shit Bro. Where the hell do you think? I was at work. More than you can say for your sorry ass down at that bullshit pizza parlor job.” His face got redder by the minute.

“I know, I know, just sayin’, it’s eight o’clock at night Man. Ma’s been home for like four hours.”

“All right, look” said Nick, “I’m not giving you hell. Just what is the deal around here anyway? Are you going to keep her from strokin’ out, or what?” He settled himself down in the overstuffed brown chair, kicking his big booted feet onto the footstool. “Well, that is what I’m tryin’ to do. Look – I got her meds all in the same spot, and told her I would help her keep track of everything. Check it out.” I handed him the blue medication container.

“Oh, holy shit! Aren’t you nurse Nancy! Well, well, how did you come up with this little idea anyway?” His smirk was starting to really piss me off, not to mention the way he said it. If he wasn’t so Goddamn big, I could of hauled off and clocked him in that smug face of his. “If you must know, Sionna helped me figure it out. She’s really smart and good at that shit. You know I never could think things through.”

Mockingly Nick replied, “If you must know, if you must know. Whatever. This chick sure has you wrapped around her finger. I mean, if you must know.”

“Stop it Nick! You haven’t even met her. I don’t understand how you can’t like someone you don’t even know, Man. Give her a fuckin’ break!” I said, trying to keep my voice down, but practically spitting on him.

“Don’t you talk to me like that, you little bastard.” Nick spit back, suddenly standing up and looking like the giant red Viking that he was.

“I’m not a bastard!”

“How the hell do you know? Maybe you are. You sure are a giant pussy – and that makes you and me way different Bro.”

“You’re so Goddamn hateful. What the fuck got into you? Was Ma on crack or somethin’ when she was pregnant with you?” I started screaming. My fists were closed tight and I wanted to punch something. Anything.

Whack! Nicks hand slapped me across the head. My left ear was ringing, and I suddenly felt very sick. “Don’t you EVER talk that way about MY mother you little fuck.” He spun around and stomped out, slamming the door behind him. Christ, what just happened? I had never been in a screaming fight with Nick before. Hell, I never had the nerve to. It just came bubbling out of me like I had been holding it down forever. Bubbling out like a box of firecrackers exploding out of my mouth. It was okay anyway. Who needs Nick, really? Me and Ma and Sionna would be just fine without him. In that split second, I knew I never wanted Sionna to meet that prick.

PART TWO 1.

It was the most perfect spring day. We were at the tail-end of the school year with only a week before summer break. The lilac bushes were blooming at the back edge of the school property. I was almost out of fourth grade. Me and Bobby Swenson were laughing our asses off, folded over at the waist, grabbing our sides before they split out. Jennifer Bales and Sue Something-or-other were looking at us with stern faces and shaking their heads.

“You guys are in so much trouble when Mrs. Stark finds out you’re making fun of her” Jennifer said with her know-it-all voice. She was like a forty year old stuck in the body of a nine year old. Her brown braids ended halfway down her back with the flail of red bows that bounced off her when she walked. She and Sue walked toward the building, probably on the way to report our goofy behavior to Mrs. Stark.

“You HAVE to learn some responsibility!” I cried, barely able to spit the words out through the raucous laughter.

“No, YOU have to learn some responsibility!” Bobby spit out, his face red and dribble running out of his mouth from the uncontrolled giggling.

“Learn some responsibility, learn some responsibility!” we cried in unison, mocking Mrs. Stark’s earlier comment in the classroom directed towards us both. We had been sending notes under the desk to one another, putting pencil eraser tips up our noses, and acting like tyrannosaurus rex monsters coming to life. Generally the type of things boys do at the end of the school year when we got tired of long division and trying to write paragraphs with three parts. It was total relief. Total uncontrollable joy bubbling up from the far reaches inside, telling the world “we’re almost free! Hee hee!”

Apparently Mrs. Stark didn’t see it that way. We had been getting on her bad side for the last week or so. She was at the end of her rope. Ma got a call from her the other night, and told me if I didn’t straighten out and “fly right” I would be punished. She would take my bike away for a week. Crap, I didn’t want that to happen. But, I just couldn’t help myself today. Everything Bobby and I saw, or heard, was absolutely hilarious. I saw Nick from the corner of my eye. He was walking toward us; hair in a devilish mess. “What are you two numbskulls doin’?” he asked looking around for a clue.

Bobby just looked at me nervously, seemingly muted by Nick’s presence. Nick was a big bad-assed sixth-grader. He was at the top of the totem pole in our school. Not only was he in the senior class, he was tall, and big, and highly respected for his bravery in every situation. Since Bobby wasn’t going to answer, I said, “Oh, just the usual crap from Mrs. Stark. She thinks we need to learn some responsibility”. The last two words came out slow with a muffled sputter before I burst into laughter again, my face red, and tears starting to form in the corners of my eyes. Nick slapped me across the shoulder. “Little Bro, you better start listening, man. Ma is pissed at you already. Don’t get sent to the principal’s office.”

“I know – I know. Just have to stop laughing.” I looked at Bobby, and he just stared wide-eyed toward the building. As I looked up, I saw Mrs. Stark strutting up to us, glasses hanging from her beaded necklace on top of her big boobs.

“Mr. Olsen! Mr. Olsen!” she started declaring as she got closer.

“Would you like to explain yourself to me before I send you in to talk to Mr. Pauls?” Mr. Pauls was the principal, and he sure wasn’t a “pal”. He was kind of a big prick. He didn’t like getting into it with arguing kids, and he really didn’t like getting into it with disrespectful kids and their parents.

“Um, sorry Mrs. Stark” Nick interrupted. “He didn’t mean anything by it. He and Bobby were just goofing around. You should see them around my house. It never ends. I’ll talk to him and Ma will talk to him. He’ll never act up in class again. I guarantee it.” Mrs. Stark put her glasses on, tipping her head at just the right angle so she could get a good head-to-toe of Nick. Actually, he might have been just an inch taller than her. “Well, Nick, I know you’re a good student. It’s too bad your brother here doesn’t have the same level head as you. It’s been such a pleasure having you at the school. We will be sorry to see you go. I guess I’ll let it pass this time.” Then she turned to me, “YOU, young man, need to follow your brother’s example and start paying attention. And you, Bobby, your mother will be getting a little note from me also.” She turned on her heels like a Nazi in one of those old World War II movies, and marched back up to the school.

“Nick, um thanks man. You saved my skin” I said. Bobby just looked at him and said, “Yeah Nick. Thanks a lot. My mom would be so upset if Mr. Pauls called her.” Nick just smirked and stared at us with a look of warning.

“You two knock it off. That is the last time I’m getting involved in your stupid crap.” He walked off toward a group of three other sixth-graders who were all asking what just happened. Of course, Nick would be the star of the show; the guy who stood up to Mrs. Stark. The guy who saved his little brother’s ass. It made me love him. It made me hate him. If they only knew the kind of stuff he did. He stole stuff, and made fun of people. He was a bully sometimes, and nobody even cared to say it. It was like Nick lived in a bubble, and no one could touch him. It was like he could just go around doin’ whatever he wanted, and everything would be okay. It was like he was magic or something.

Later that night, Nick came into my room and asked how the rest of the day went. “Oh, it was okay. Thanks again for standing up to Mrs. Stark for me.”

“So what was the joke anyway?” he asked.

“She was telling us we needed to learn responsibility. But it just wasn’t that, it was the way she said it. It was just really funny at the time.” I was at a loss for words, because now it didn’t seem funny at all, when it had seemed hilarious earlier.

“You’re such a numbskull, man.” He reached over and mussed up the hair on the top of my head. “I’ll always take care of you. Don’t forget that.”

“I won’t Nick. I won’t”

2.

I found myself staring out the front window of the pizza parlor. The grass was turning green, and the weather was getting warmer. That must have been what triggered the memory of Nick and me in grade school. I just sighed, a slight grin on my face. He had always been the alpha dog of the family. Well, actually, he had always been the alpha dog in any group he had ever been a part of. I don’t think Sionna really got the full gist of this. She hadn’t met Nick yet. So far, I had managed to keep them apart. But I knew sooner or later, they would end up in the same place. They were both the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end – of me anyway. What I mean is, both of them completed me in some way. Just really different ways. He was the leader, the supporter, the pusher, I guess. She was the soft part of my life, my comfort, and inner strength. Without both of them, who would I be? Who would I be? That was the question I had to ask myself.

A couple months had gone by since my fight with Nick. He was now avoiding us like the plague. He can over to see Ma about once a week, but barely said anything to me now. If he did, it was something smartass, like “how’s that girlfriend of yours Bro? Hope you’re getting something from her, your nose is nice and brown.” He was always saying some stupid crap like that. I just ignored him for the most part. Actually, Nick wasn’t bothering me that much anymore. Since I had started meditation, and been doing it on a regular basis, things weren’t so critical. Things happened, but my reaction to the things that happened weren’t sudden and reactive. I was learning to control the way my mind thought about things. I could “see” my mind like I was watching a movie. I could see what I was thinking and feeling, and then I was able to control where those emotions were going. It was like being my own monitor. It was pretty useful really.

I could see that a lot of what Nick once meant to me was kind of silly, in a way. He was not the all-powerful beast people cracked him up to be. He was not my best friend, or my biggest fear. Nick was just a person. I am just a person, and on and on and on. No one is more powerful than I am, or less powerful than I am. I guess we all have inner strength. We just need to figure out how to use it. Ma was doing okay. We had her medication down to a science now, with all the pills laid out for each day, and for the time of day she needed them. She was often confused, but able to remember what happened for short periods most of the time. The best part was, she really loved Sionna. She asked me when she was coming over, what she was going to cook (when she did), and told me how “nice” and “polite” she was. It made me happy inside. To actually feel like I was being valued for a decision that I had made, not that Nick made, but that I had made, felt awesome.

Nick came over to visit last night. He walked in with his big boots and brown suede jacket, threw his keys into the basket next to the front door, and bent down to kiss Ma. She peeled her eyes away from the T.V. long enough to kiss his cheek and ask how his work was. “Oh, you know, it was okay I guess. Those assholes next to me in the line almost caught me in the goddamn drill press today. I told them to pull their heads outta’ their asses and start doin’ their jobs before someone gets killed down there.”

“Nick, do you have to swear? It’s so unlike you.” Ma said with her saggy puppy eyes. “Okay, okay, Ma. No, I won’t swear in front of ya; don’t want to hurt your pretty ears.” Ma smiled in her hesitant way. She turned back to the T.V. not wanting to miss the end of her cop show.

“So, what’s up with you?” he said, pressing his lips into a strange pursed curl. “Ah, not much. Just working and thinking about going to school” I said. I was expecting a huge knee-slapping laugh from Nick, but he just stared at me silently contemplating what I had just said.

“Going to school? How the hell are you going to pay for that? And what for?” His look displayed an incomprehensible expression, as if he had just heard Ma was pregnant or something.

“Well, I decided that there’s a lot of good jobs out there, but I have to have a degree to do anything worth doing, so I’m going to the community college and getting a bachelor’s degree in business. Maybe I can manage a restaurant or someplace like that.” I waited for his arguments. “How the hell will you pay for it? How the hell are you going to have time to watch Ma if your screwing around with those pencil-pushers?” His eyes looked like they were set on fire. “Sionna told me I could qualify for a low-interest student loan. I checked it all out, and applied for it, and they gave me the money. I mean, really, community college isn’t that much compared to other places.”

Nick cut me short. “Whoa, whoa, whoa dude. You have really done it now. I can’t believe you are letting this chick tell you what to do. It’s not like she’s gonna be around to help pay this shit back! That’s all on your head man. I can tell you one thing, it sure ain’t gonna be me helping your sorry ass out when you finish – IF you finish-and then have a huge debt and no job. Hope you keep your place at the pizza joint, or you’re really gonna be sorry.” His eyes were wild with exaggeration as he rolled them around the room.

I had to hand it to Nick, he never lost his personality, never slid out of his slick, macho attitude of Mr. Know-it-all, never. I just looked at him. “I have to tell you that first of all, I don’t want to work in a pizza place my whole life. Second, I don’t do everything Sionna tells me, this was my idea. And lastly, it would really mean a lot to me if you could just step up and be on my side for once, you know? You are my brother, man.” I was trying not to lose my cool composure, because we really needed to work things out. I needed him to work with me on this. “Be on your side? Be on your side?” he said with an elevating voice.

“Man, do you actually remember your own life? How many times have I saved your ass? I mean really, can you keep count?”

Ma was starting to notice there was something unusual going on. She looked up with a confused, creased forehead. She started nodding her head side to side, as if to say, “Please don’t argue boys.” Slowly, she returned her eyes back to the television screen and folded her hands in her lap.

“I know, Nick, I know. I’m not saying that. What I mean is, I really need my family to support me on this. It’s going to be really hard, and take a lot of time. I will be here for Ma. Classes aren’t all day. I have to be in and out of here. I’ll make sure she’s okay.” Nick looked pensive. “Do you remember that time in high school when Donny Amstel started harassing you? He was pushing you in the locker room after gym class and calling here hanging up, and threatening to steal you bike? Do you remember all that?” “Yeah, sure, I do remember that. You told me you would take care of it, and then, all of a sudden, he just stopped talking to me altogether. He wouldn’t even look at me.” “Do you know what happened?” Nick said smirking.

“Not really. What did you do?” I almost didn’t want to know.

“Well,” he said leaning in toward me and lowering his voice so Ma couldn’t hear, “I followed him home from school one day. As he was going into his house, I ran up and shoved my body in his front door, so he couldn’t close it. Oh God man, he looked like he was about to shit his pants.” Nick started giggling like a little kid. “Then – then, oh man. Then, I told him if he ever threatened you like that again he would be killed. I told him our family had mafia connections. And he believed me! He was so scared, I couldn’t believe he actually believed me. What a dumbass! It worked though, right?” He looked so proud of himself right then. “It did work Nick, it did.” I had to snicker too. The thought of us being connected to the mafia was the craziest thing ever. We were about as far from Italian as you could get. I mean, if there was a Viking mafia organization, then maybe. I just smiled at him. “You are something else man.”

He hit me lightly on the arm. “You’re not just my brother man, you’re my best friend.” That completely caught me off guard. I hadn’t ever thought about it, but I guess we were pretty good friends. I guess I could consider Nick to be my best friend. All my friends from high school were getting married, and having kids. I was friends with some of the guys at work, but none of them were that great of friends. Nick and me, we had a history all right. I just smiled at him. “Just remember this Bro, nothin’, I mean nothing is ever gonna come between us. You get me man? You get me? Not school, not Ma, and not this girl either. I mean, I get it. I get that she’s your girlfriend. But bro’s before ho’s. You know what I mean?” Nick just sneered at me with a thin, greasy smile. I wanted to scream inside. Who the hell is he to call my girlfriend a “ho”? I know it was a generalization, but really. Nick needed to grow up. I just kept it under wraps and smiled back at him. “Sure Nick, sure. I get you man” was all I said. 3 My first class was a college level English class. We were going to have to write a lot, and apparently read a lot too. It was all leading up to a long essay at the end of the semester. We had to present an argument, and support it with research and what-not. It had been over a decade since I was in a classroom. I thought I would be the oldest one there, but was shocked to look around and see quite a few middle aged people, even a grandma or two. This got my hopes up. Maybe I wouldn’t have as much trouble as these older folks, I mean, hell, at least I had been there closer than they had. We went to the library on campus and rummaged through the reference section, listened to the librarian talk about resources, and that kind of thing. It wasn’t so bad really. There were a few cute girls in there; just a few really. They were mostly younger than me. They weren’t as pretty as Sionna, though. But then when they opened their mouths – oh God! The stupid shit that came out was amazing. It was like they didn’t talk about anything but their clothes, their hair, nails, blah, blah, blah. I couldn’t believe the difference between them and Sionna. She was a rocket scientist compared to these chicks.

I had to get a computer to do all this work at home. Sionna hooked me up with this guy who was selling his, and I got him to come over and set it up in my bedroom. Ma was confused out of her mind. “What’s going on? What is that thing? Why do you need that?” The questions kept coming. Let’s face it, people were starting to use computers, and Ma had never even set eyes on one. No one used them when she worked at the school, and she hadn’t had a grip on the present situation for a while. I was able to write papers, and journal on it. I couldn’t surf though, I had to be at school in the computer lab for that. But what the hell? It was better than nothing. I found myself writing a lot more than I really needed to. Between school, Ma, Sionna, and my job, I was getting very little sleep, and when I did sleep, I slept hard. I didn’t mind it though. Every day I woke up with a purpose, which was a lot different than the way I used to wake up. My purpose was taking care of Ma, learning, and loving Sionna. Me and her were getting to know each other better and better all the time. She helped me with my homework. It was like she actually enjoyed it, even though I knew she already learned this stuff. Her brain was like a steel trap; she remembered everything she ever learned. I wish I could become like that. She told me that learning was like meditating. You have to focus on one thing, and that thing only. If you did this, you would never forget. She told me the ancient Tibetans had a way of remembering things. They pretended to see a big library in their minds. Every time they learned a fact, they would walk over to the section in the library that it belonged in, and open a book labeled that thing, and store the fact into that book. Fascinating! I started to picture my mind’s library, and storing all the facts I learned into the correct book. So far, I didn’t have too many book, or sections of the library, for that matter, in actual use. But, someday, I hoped to have a library full of facts. “What do you want to do today” Sionna asked as we were walking out of the apartment building. Ma had found a game show to watch, and we decided to get some fresh air. The sky was blue, and it was going to be a warm one. Some kids on the corner were skateboarding and screwing around outside of the hardware store. One of then looked at us, then turned to the other two kids and they started laughing.

“What the hell?’ I said, looking over at her. “What the hell is so funny about us?” “Nothing, unless your thirteen. Thirteen hear olds think everything is funny.” She just smiled at me and we kept walking.

“I feel like I want to go over there and punch that kid in the face, and you’re standing here brushing it off like it’s nothing. Doesn’t that piss you off?”

“No.” she said calmly. “Why do you let other people bother you like that? You know they’re just kids, and there’s nothing funny about what we’re doing, so, just ignore them.” “Well I know that logically, but it still pisses me off” I didn’t know how to describe my symptoms of inner rage.

“Well, I’ll tell you something. Only when we become masters of ourselves, can we really deal with the world. What I mean is, the world is full of stupid, violent, seemingly useless people. But you aren’t stupid, violent, or useless. You know more than they do. You can see that your feelings are not logical, and you can deal with moving on. You have a purpose. We have to live with all kinds of people that aren’t as advanced as we are spiritually.” “Do you really think we are more advanced spiritually? How do you know they aren’t yet, but might become like Buddha or something?”

“So if they do become like Buddha, we should definitely leave them alone, so they can follow that path. I mean, if you think one of those boys is going to become the next spiritual master, then you should be glad you got a glimpse of what they used to be like!” She just started laughing, and so did I. Thinking about one of those numbskulls becoming enlightened made me laugh.

“You’re really something, you know that?”

“You’re really something too.” She looked up at me with her ocean eyes and I leaned down and kissed her. That kiss was like slow motion. It was like there was no one else around, and if there was, it didn’t matter anyway.

“Love is the universal language, and we know how to speak it”, her face was beaming and her mouth slowly crept into a secret smile.

“You’re the only one I can speak it to, I guess.”

“That is one of our missions, I think.” She looked pensive. “We have to learn how to speak it to everyone, even strangers, and even people we don’t particularly like.” “That’s going to be hard” I said.

“I know. That is the meaning of “loving kindness”. That is the ability to open our hearts and accept everyone, even those kids on the corner laughing at us. It might take my whole life, but I am bound and determined to find that inside of me and bring it out.” “Let me know if you do, because if my girlfriend is loving everyone, I think I’m going to need a new one!” I started laughing.

“I could never love anyone like I love you.” That was it. That was what had not been said, and now it was said. I would remember the way she looked at me for the rest of my life. My girlfriend told me she loved me, and it was the most sincere statement I have ever heard. It really came from her heart.

“I could never love anyone the way I love you either.” We just smiled at each other and kept on walking.

4 Nick was laughing so hard, I thought he might fall off his couch. He had smoke sputtering out of the corner of his mouth, and his face was beet red as usual. At that moment I wondered why I had even taken the time to come over to his apartment.

“Come on, Bro. You haven’t been to my place for ages.” His argument finally persuaded me to ride over to his place and sit around with him and a couple old friends before heading to Joe’s to play pool and hassle the waitresses. This was the usual scene: Nick invites people over, Nick gets hammered, and Nick has an audience to tell his stories to. Boring. I’ve heard all this shit about a million times.

“Man,” Bob said holding the ceramic pipe and blowing smoke, “I don’t know about you guys, but I’m needin’ some new action. This girlfriend of mine used to be a freak, but she won’t put out anymore.”

“Same old story man, it never gets any better” Sammy said, taking a sip from the Bud can. “They just want to get you trapped, and then start spending your cash. Not to mention, they stop looking good after a while. It’s like they just start eating, never wear make-up, or do their hair, or any of that shit.”

“Fuck make-up man”, Bob said. “I like a natural looking girls, you know, big tits and bright eyes.” He just started sputtering smoke out.

Nick just laughed. “Hey, unless you know some Victoria Secret models around here, I’m just here to tell you there aint’ many good looking girls in Milwaukee, period. Aint’ that right Bro? Oh Wait, yea, never mind. He’s got the perfect girlfriend. She has him wrapped right now.” “Oh wow dude, is that right?” Sammy said looking at me. “Are you being pussy whipped? “ He slapped his leg and stomped one foot on the floor. “Man, do you need a ‘get out of jail free’ card or something?” The three of them kept it up a few more minutes, while I just leaned back on the rocking chair and smiled. What a bunch of morons.

“You three wouldn’t recognize class and intelligence if it jumped up and bit your ass” I said finally. “Hell, Tyra Banks could ask you for your number, and you wouldn’t recognize an opportunity. Not that I’m saying Tyra Banks is fun to be around – I don’t know her.” “Oh Dude! You have got to be kidding me” Sammy laughed, looking more stoned by the minute. “Tyra banks can move in, take over my bank account, and have my fucking CAR if she wants!” They all started laughing again.

Apparently, tonight was not the night to get into an intelligent conversation with these three knuckle heads. It’s not like any one of them would have understood Sionna in any way. It would be like trying to explain algebra to a bug; totally useless. It did piss me off though. I mean, Nick pretends to be all understanding when we are by ourselves, but then calls me out in front of these guys. I guess he really doesn’t give two shits about how I feel. All that “I’m your best friend” crap just doesn’t hold water.

The music was turned up loud as we opened the door to Joe’s Bar and Grill. People were lounging along the wall in the room to the left, smoking and holding cue sticks. Quarters were stacked up on the sides of the pool table for upcoming games. The bar to the right was packed. People had filled the tables, and were now just standing around in between them holding onto their beer bottles and tumbler glasses filled with mixed well drinks. A T.V. on a tall stack in the corner was inaudible with all the talking, laughing, and sounds of heavy rock music. This was the place where people like us came on Saturday nights. By people like us, I mean, the working poor and middle class. People who worked their asses off forty-plus hours a week for a measly paycheck, then spent a third of it drinking and shooting pool. I took a look around. I hadn’t been in here for probably at least six months. It seemed strange to me, as if I were an alien visiting the planet, amused by the antics of the population. Everyone appeared familiar, but the lifestyle was starting to confuse me. All of a sudden it felt so – dumb. Just dumb. These people felt dumb, like they were numb from the world. They didn’t want to question anything, or learn anything. They just enjoyed being miserable five days a week, happy for one, and regretful on Sunday from their hangovers and awkward sexual encounters.

Oh well, when in Rome, do as the Romans do. I had heard that, and it resonated with me right now. I took a deep breath, and stepped up to the bar beside Nick, who (of course) everyone scooched over for. Nick ordered a Jack and Coke, Sammy and Bob had BPR’s, and I had a Bud. I had never been bothered by smoke before, but tonight it was making my eyes water. A couple of the waitresses sashayed by wearing blue jeans and white blouses, Joe’s requirement for uniformed employees. Sammy elbowed Nick and nodded at the brunette one. Her hair was pulled back in a ponytail, and bangs ratted out puffy. She had a nice shape, but caught Sammy’s look and frowned slightly with a “screw you” look. Nick just laughed.

“That Tonya, she’s a feisty one.” He said, taking a drink from the tumbler. “You want a date with her?” He questioned Sammy, making it sound completely possible. Anything was possible for Nick.

“Hell yeah, I do.” Sammy responded with a dull watery look in his eyes. “I would pay you back Man if you could do it.”

“Of course I can do it” Nick said. “Hold on a second; that looks like Lindsey over there.” He pointed to the other room with the pool tables. Lindsey was his ex-girlfriend, and hopeful step-daughter for my Ma. She was a pretty girl with light blonde hair and brown eyes. Nick had dumped her like a sack of potatoes because she was getting too “into his personal shit.” It had been almost a year since then, but Nick hadn’t found anyone to seriously date. I thought he had taken a vow not to get that involved again. If there’s one thing Nick can’t stand, its people questioning him. Otherwise known as “getting to know someone”. There was no right way for a girl to treat Nick. Either she was too possessive, or she didn’t take care of him enough. It was a no-win situation as far as I could tell. I felt sorry for Lindsey after the break-up, but Nick is my guy, and you just have to be on his side, no matter what.

“Yep, that looks like her” Sammy said, still glancing at the waitress who was now serving a table in the corner.

“Who’s she with? Who’s that asshole?” Nick said.

“Why does it matter Bro? You broke up with her – remember?” I just gave him that questioning look, wondering why he even cared.

“I just keep tabs on her. You know what I mean? No one told me she was seeing anyone.” He started to get that look of craziness in his face.

“Drop it man. Don’t worry about it. It didn’t work out. She can see whoever she wants.” I had to state her case because I knew that crazy look. I really didn’t want to bar fight, or explain being arrested tonight. I didn’t really want to be here in the first place. “Kiss my ass! Did I ask your opinion?” He got up and started walking into the next room. Bob and Sammy and I just gave each other that look; that “oh shit” look. They started following, and I reluctantly did too. I wish I could just duck out the door right now, but Nick would kick my ass tomorrow if I ran.

“What’s up Lindsey” Nick asked her as he approached. She was wearing a pink sweater and boots. Actually, she looked pretty hot - more hot than I wished she did at that particular moment.

“Oh, hi Nick. Not much” she looked up at the ceiling and shrugged her shoulders. The guy she was with came up next to her and put his arm around her in a protective sort of way. He had black wavy hair and dark eyes. I would have guessed him to be Spanish, or Italian, or something. His eyes started to close slightly, in a look of suspicious anger, his caterpillar eyebrows dipped down the midline of his face. “Who is this?” the mystery man said. “Oh, just an old friend,” Lindsey said as nonchalantly as she could. People were starting to stare. The room got quieter as the pool players paused and leaned onto their cues wondering what would happen next.

“Where did you meet this one? I didn’t hear of you dating anybody. We keep our ears out, if you know what I mean.”

“Nick, why does it matter to you?” she said, annoyed at the prospect of explaining her personal relationship with this new guy.

“Nick – leave it alone.” I tried to step in front of him, but he pushed me to the side. “What the fuck is wrong with you?” the dark haired man said. “You got a problem with me? Hell, I never even seen you before, and you’re in my face like a little bitch!” Uh oh, that did it. Red fire came out of Nick’s eyes. His nostrils flared, and he had his fists clenched. Bob and Sammy just stood there with anticipation on their faces. They looked around at the rest of the people in the room, sizing up what could be their opponents. This had the look and feel of an all-out brawl. You could have heard a pin drop with the exception of the background music coming out of the corner speakers. An old AC-DC song blared through: “…so join me for a drink boys….we gonna make a big noise…have a drink on me….have a drink on me…”

One of the waitresses walked backwards out of the room, and made a b-line for the back kitchen, probably to warn Joe that trouble was brewing. I had had enough of this crap. I was so tired of Nick always making a scene, causing trouble, and basically getting away with everything. Why should I stand by while he pounds the shit out of this guy he had never met before?

I stepped up closer than I had ever dared to face Nick when he was in a state of rage. I looked him in the eye, pleading with him. “Nick, Nick, listen – you don’t have any problem with this guy. You don’t even know this guy. Lindsey can see whoever she wants. Leave it man, just leave it.”

“Keep out of it! It’s none of your Goddamn business. You’re going to be next if you don’t get out of my face asshole.” Nick kept his eyes glued on Lindsey’s boyfriend. If looks could kill, the guy would have already been dead. I had seen this all before. Once he got his anger up, Nick would have his way. There seemed to be no going back at this point. I think Lindsey knew this too. She separated herself from her boyfriend and flattened against the side wall, as if to become invisible.

“Stop it! Stop it! You’re crazy as shit! No one cares about your ego Nick!” I was yelling at him, looking him in the face. I was terrified, not only of being hit, but being shunned; shunned as his brother. At that moment I knew what I was truly afraid of. I was afraid of being alone. I was afraid of having to take full responsibility for myself and trying to make my way through this life, without Nick to back me up. I was yelling at the world, I was yelling at myself. It was like everything was in slow motion. I could see Nick’s creased brow, his mouth twisted into a weird shape, and his right fist slowly drawing back and moving toward my face. It was as if I had plenty of time to react, because time was standing still. There was no sound or movement from the other people in the pool room. My head swerved back, and I caught my backward moving motion onto my right foot. Simultaneously, Joe and his big bouncer came running into the room and they tried to restrain Nick. Then, Lindsey’s voice was all I heard “No! Stop!” Then life became a blur again. I do remember Lindsey grabbing the dark man and pushing him toward the door pleading with him to get out of there and take her home. I remember Nick turning on Joe and the bouncer and head-butting the bouncer so he could escape the hands twisted around his arms. I could hear Sammy and Bob yelling at the other guys, and trying to get Nick out of the bar.

And then all I remember was running. I was running like a bear was chasing me, jumping over obstacles in the street and darting around other people on the sidewalk. I ran, and ran, until my chest felt like it was about to explode. My ears were reverberating with the sound of my own heartbeat, and my nose stung from the cold air rushing in to fill the void each breath took from my lungs. I thought I was running home, but I found myself running to Sionna’s house, into the arms of the only person that really understood me. Into the comfort of the only person I felt I could trust. She asked me what happened, and I told her the whole story. I had to explain who Sammy and Bob were, and how they were. She had never met any of them. She just stared at me, taking her time to think.

“Your brother tried to hit you.”

“Yes, he did.”

“No one does that, you know. I mean, no one who really cares about you.” “He does care about me. I can’t explain Nick completely, but I’m pretty sure at this rate, you may never meet him. I don’t know if we’ll ever even talk to each other again” I said. “Well” she said, “if he never did, you would be better off. But, I think he will. He is like a thorn in your side. He obviously has issues with his self-esteem. I think he is a controlling ass, and you are showing him that you don’t need him. You are the voice of reason, and he doesn’t understand reason.”

I just looked at her. She had a point. Nick was an ass, and he did have poor self-esteem, which I had never seen until this moment.

“I love Nick though, I mean, he’s my brother. He had always taken care of us – me and Ma. I can’t just ignore him. I’m going to have to talk to him sometime.” “I know sweetie, but look at you. Look at all the progress you have made that he hasn’t.” Her eyes had a compassionate look, as she stroked the side of my face. “You have learned to use your brain. You have been to yoga, and meditation now for half a year. Your mind is starting to work differently. You are becoming a bravely compassionate being. You can’t let him intimidate you, or stop you from your purpose.”

“My purpose….what is my purpose?” I really had to know this. Did I have a purpose? I suppose I did, I just didn’t have a clue what it was.

“I don’t know.” She looked pensive. “I suppose everyone’s purpose is different. My thought is that we really won’t know until life is over.”

“Um, isn’t that a little too late?” I started laughing. I had been through the full range of emotions today, from scared shitless, to giddy. “I mean really, what good is it to find out the purpose of our lives when we’re dead? Assuming that we are able to think and somehow exist after we’re dead. I don’t know, I guess I’ve never thought about it much.” My amusement stopped, and now I just looked at her. There was a stillness between us as we both thought awhile.

Sionna smiled at me as she reached out to my face, cupping my jaw bones in her palms, in a motherly sort of way. “You’re exhausted. We can talk about this later. Let’s get some sleep. Why don’t you stay with me tonight?”

“I have to go check on Ma.”

“Don’t you think that is exactly where Nick will go? He is a violent, out-of-control person right now. If he finds you, he’s just as likely to kill you as he is to verbally assault you. I mean, you really don’t need that crap right now. You need rest. Your Ma is okay for one night. Please stop worrying.”

I thought for a moment. She was right. Actually, she was always right. Nick was crazy right now. I thought if I saw his face one more time tonight I would completely lose it. She sat down on the green suede sofa, and I lied down next to her. I rested my head in her lap, and she started to massage my head. It felt like such a relief. “Sionna, the first time I met you, I felt so comfortable. It was like, I don’t know how to explain it, but, it was like, I had finally come home.”

She leaned down to kiss the top of my head. I could see a watery film cover her pale blue eyes as if she were about to cry. “Me too honey. Me too.” We lingered in that realization for a moment. “By the way – the purpose of your life is to find the true self within you, and to honor it. To be the best person you can while you’re here. That’s how I see it anyway.” “I hope I can.” My eyes started to close, and I knew nothing else from this day. It was totally messed up, but in the end, it was epic.

The world was in black and white. I was the same man I had always been, but felt exhausted, as if I had just been in a three day battle and somehow survived. My boots were folded below my knees, stockings dirty, tunic smeared with mud and who knows what else. My head spun and my mouth was dry. I walked toward the lake, through the sand and into the reeds at the edge. I leaned down to cup the life-giving water into my hands to drink. The wind began to howl, the water started moving, first rippling, then lapping in waves onto my leather boots. The limbs of nearby trees swayed, then bent as if a great force were upon them. From the middle of the lake she rose. It was a slow motion dance with wind and water swirling around her. I could see her face, long brown hair, and eyes of light blue. She raised her arms as if to direct nature, like a conductor directing a symphony. She appeared as an angel, with long blowing white fabric from her gown swirling around her. The long sleeves sliced through the water, and yet, she was dry.

The world suddenly had color. Vibrant greens, blues, and yellows shocked me out of semi-consciousness. She smiled, as I held my arms out to her. She was nearer to the lakeside now, and walked effortlessly through the clear, blue water. We embraced, and a feeling of total and complete serenity enveloped me. Then, without warning, alarm was there. The air was still, and we felt pure fear. Nick emerged from the woods to our right. He appeared as a giant, with large teeth and eyes of fire. He held a weapon. It was a mace he whirled above his head as he walked towards us. The sound of the footsteps echoed and shook the earth; the chains from the mace clanged and rattled. He was out for us, and I tried to step in front of her. She spread out her arms with her sleeves blowing out, making her appear to be flying. Nick was being pushed back with an invisible force. The two forces fought against each other – good against evil – water against fire. His face was angry and wild because his weapon would not follow the command of his body. He started to shrink to a normal size. The wind stopped blowing, and Nick disappeared into thin air. She turned and smiled at me again. I felt total relief. I started to stroke her hair and kiss her face, suddenly becoming aware of the taste of her lips. They were real lips, it was real hair….

Suddenly I bolted upright, almost slamming Sionna in the jaw with my head. “What the?” I said, confused at the time and place I was in.

“Oh my gosh! What’s going on? We must have drifted off to sleep.” She started to rub the sleep out of her eyes. We were folded together on her couch, both disoriented. I glanced up at the kitchen clock to see that it was three a.m.

“I had the craziest dream. You were an angel, and came out of the water. You protected us from Nick with some kind of magical force!”

She started to giggle. “Well, that sounds about right.” She just smiled and closed her eyes sleepily. “Let’s go to bed and get some sleep. We’ve had an interesting day.” “You can say that again.” We shuffled down the dark hallway, peeled off our clothes and climbed into the crisp fragrant sheets of her queen-size bed. Within minutes we were out. The next thing I knew it was nine o’clock and the start of a new day.

5.

The next months seemed to drag on, with school, work, Ma, Sionna, and all of my homework pulling the last of my energy. I was doing well at school. It was like learning all over again how to construct paragraphs, create an argument, or just state my opinion on something I had read. I graduated from High School with average grades, never paying too much attention to anything I ever learned. I figured I would get a job and work, like all the other kids around me. I would be part of the working class, hopefully making enough money to someday buy a house and car. It took luck really. Around here, it wasn’t what you knew, it was who you knew. One guy from my graduating class became the manager of one of the Milwaukee papers. He wasn’t an editor, but a human resource guy. They may have paid for him to go back to school for a degree. He started in the mailroom, and somehow wound up in charge of people. What a lucky break. All I had to look forward to was maybe becoming the manager of the pizza place. Now that I think about doing that, it cracks me up. There is so much opportunity for people that apply themselves (at least that’s what I keep hearing). I had to constantly re-evaluate who I once was, and who I was now. What I mean is, that I could see myself growing. I’m not really an emotional person, but once or twice I found myself almost at the point of tears. Whether this was in response to my personal growth, or just complete exhaustion, I don’t know. Sionna was always on my mind. The first thing I thought of in the morning, all day, and then the last person I thought about at night. We saw each other every spare minute, but it just didn’t seem to be enough for either of us. Because we were both always tired, we would get hyped up being around each other. We wanted to be physical, but the mental stuff kept taking up all of our time. By the time the physical stuff did happen, we would often fall asleep, blissfully dreaming of the fulfillment we gave each other. I wanted more. Then I slammed back into reality and shuffled home to make sure that Ma was okay. Nick was completely avoiding us, and Ma was confused. She couldn’t figure out why he never came around. She started to see me as the leader of our little family. Maybe Nick was just a little bit too much like dad in his abandonment. Of course, I didn’t tell her why he was away. She had no idea of the bar scene, and the fact he tried to punch me out. It would have shocked her into a heart attack or something. I couldn’t bear to have her thinking badly of Nick, no matter how much he had tried to hurt me. When she asked me where he had been, I would cover for him, telling her he had a poker game, or was at the gym or something. She always believed me.

Consequently, Sionna came over quite a bit. Ma was definitely happy to have her around. Sionna was so kind and took the time to make Ma feel special. She would talk to her about her day, and her meals. She would cook for her sometimes, and Ma really appreciated that. I think she really got hooked when Sionna made this outrageous casserole with butternut squash, cheese, and crunchy nuts. It was something Ma had never had (me neither), and it tasted really good. Sionna wanted to make her healthy. She was as much a help to me, as to Ma. She made sure I filled the pill containers correctly, which was good, because half the time I was so tired I could have made mistakes. She even read to Ma, when we could get her interested in anything other than the squawk-box. Ma would listen carefully, arms folded in her lap, with her little afghan around her, and then within an hour, forget everything we had read. It didn’t matter though, it was truly the thought that counted. Even if she forgot what was said, she remembered who said it, and the feeling behind it, which made me feel great.

Most of the time, we would get Ma to bed, come back out to the living room, or my room, start talking, maybe have sex if we were lucky, then fall into a coma. If we were really energetic, we would go back to her house and try staying up later, which would kill me the next day. I knew something had to give, but there was nothing to give. Everything mattered. Everything was important, and I had to push through it. I knew in the back of my mind that someday I would be glad for the sacrifices I was making now. I also knew Sionna was watching me. She was observing how I dealt with stress, and I wanted to make her proud of me. I also knew, and this was in the farthest places in my head, that I wanted Nick to know I had done it. I wanted Nick to feel proud of me too. What a crazy thing. I would probably still be trying to prove myself to Nick, even if I turned ninety. Logically, I knew this was stupid, but I couldn’t help feeling the way I did, so I just tried to accept this part of myself. I was into my first philosophy class, which seemed to help me with managing all of these issues in my life. Sometimes though, it just lead to more confusion. I guess that’s the point. The teacher, who was a middle aged guy with a beer gut, told us that it is the science of “thinking about thinking”, but that it’s really not a science, because it can’t be measured scientifically. The entire idea was a paradox. Socrates said, “The unexamined life is not worth living.” I was starting to believe this. What was the purpose of my life? It certainly wasn’t working in a pizza parlor, or taking care of Ma, or falling in love, although these were important parts. Sionna and I would talk about meditating on personal and spiritual growth. If I was growing, then I was still a baby. I looked around at all the people in my world: Joe, the bar owner, Mitch at Moxie’s handing out towels to people working out, or even Nick. Did these people examine their lives? I can answer that one - “no.” Did that mean their lives were not worth living? I thought that was wrong too. How did this fit into spiritual growth, or un-growth? Would they return someday as different people until they figured something out? There were so many questions that I couldn’t answer, and as far as I could tell, no one in the books could answer them either. The more tired I got, the more confused I got.

I was writing a little paper on Rene Descartes, who was the founder of modern philosophy. He was the guy known to say, “I think, therefore I am.” We were talking in class about dualism, or the difference between the mind having consciousness and the brain being the center of intelligence. This set up years of debate on how the mind and the body were two different things. I was floundering along when the doorbell rang. I hadn’t expected to see Sionna for another couple of hours, but there she stood in all her beauty in my doorway. How could I separate her mind and body? They were a force to be dealt with for sure. Ma was in her chair and the two of them said “hi” to each other, then she headed back to the bedroom with me. She flopped down on my bed with an exhausted sigh.

“Geez, what a day. I have been running around like a chicken with its head cut off.” She went on to explain going to yoga, then the store, home to write some notes on her class in comparative religion, then to the library, and then here to see me. While she talked, all I could do was just watch her mouth move in a dreamy way, like she was taking me on a vacation from my life to visit hers for a while. Her hair was pinned up on top of her head giving her a regal quality. She wore sandals and a flowered shirt that went gently up and down as she breathed.

“I love you.” I said when she finished.

“Have you been listening to anything I said?” She smiled and squinted her eyes in a suspicious way.

“Every word”, I answered. And it was true. I hung onto every word she said. I took it all in; all the visuals and words and expressions. I took her in like it would be the last day of my life, and I would have this memory of her when they walked me down the hallway to execution. My mind started making up this story. Of course, I recognized that my conscious mind was influencing my body at this moment, as I looked down at the excitement I had created inside my jeans. She just started laughing, and I jumped on her to kiss and roll around a little bit. I needed a break anyway.

“So, what’s your paper about?”

“Oh, it’s not really a big paper. It’s just some thoughts on dualism and Descartes.” My mind came back to reality with a bump.

“Perception is so cool to think about,” she said. “Like, is this bed here when you don’t see it? That is something philosophers spend time thinking about.”

“Does a tree that falls in the forest make a sound if no one hears it?” I said with a snort. “Right, that kind of shit.”

“How do people come up with this stuff anyway? I mean, who cares if the tree makes a sound? Will it influence the rest of my life?” I stared up at the crack near the ceiling light. “Well, I guess it could if it spills over to other things. Do I exist if you don’t see me? If I don’t exist when you aren’t seeing me, does it matter what I do?”

“Don’t fuck with my head. I can’t take it anymore,” I said with a sigh. She just cradled my head in her hands and said, “You know my parents were hippies, right?”

“No, you never told me that.”

“Well, I was born in 1970, and my mom always said she got pregnant with me at Woodstock.”

“Is that right? I had no idea you were a product of the 1960’s hippie culture. What was it like as a kid?”

“Well, you know my Dad went by the name ‘Mushroom’, and my Mom went by ‘Jasmine’, I mean, how do you think I got the name Sionna?” She sat up and looked at me quizzically.

“Wow, I guess I never asked you that, although I did wonder. I have never heard that name before.”

“Sionna is a Celtic Goddess, really it’s pronounced like ‘Shanna”, but no one would get that, so they just pronounced it the way it was spelled. Sionna was the Matron of the river Shannon. She was said to be the possessor of wisdom, because the river was one of the seven rivers of knowledge springing from the Celtic underworld of the dead. Fascinating, huh?” “Wow, that’s cool, your mom and dad put some thought into that one.”

“Well, my mom and dad smoked a lot of pot and dropped a lot of acid. I’m surprised my brain works at all.”

“You don’t have any brothers or sisters either. Why didn’t they have any more?” She looked thoughtful. “I think they were too interested in their extracurricular activities to worry about diapers and bottles.” She looked thoughtfully at the ceiling, “actually, it was kind of nice having parents like that. It was hard keeping friends though. Once my friend’s parents met my parents – it was pretty much over.” She smiled, and I kissed her forehead gently. “Well,” I said, “everyone knew Ma, because she worked for the school system. Which made it really hard to be a fuck-up. Although, Nick seemed to get away with everything under the sun.”

“How do you think he did that?” Her head cocked to the side, and eyes narrowed. “I don’t know, I really don’t. That guy is a master of deception. He’s always been able to intimidate people, even the teachers. He just has that feeling to him, you know?” “No, he sounds interesting though. I need to meet your brother someday.” “Trust me. Take all the time in the world. It’s really not going to do anything for you, except make you feel inferior. Well, maybe not you. Actually, I’m sure not you.” I played with the ends of her hair. “Where are they? I mean, your parents. Where did they go?” “Where all old hippies go – to the farm.” She laughed, “They are in Door County on about ten acres with a dilapidated old farm house, a little barn, a few chickens, a cow, the usual farm stuff.”

“Hey, that sounds cool. Wish I could see that.” I wondered about living out in the open, without a bunch of people around.

“Mom’s family had some money. If it wasn’t for her inheritance from Grandma, they would be nowhere. They grow their own food, can it for winter, and drink unpasteurized milk – the works. I have to admit, real eggs off the farm taste much better. Hell, I grew up drinking unpasteurized milk, and I seem to be just fine.”

“You are more than fine. You are perfect.”

She started to giggle, “You’re ridiculous, you know.”

“I might be ridiculous, but you are perfect to me. So, have you ever done drugs?” “That’s a loaded question. I probably smoked more secondhand pot smoke before I was three than most adults do on purpose. Why do you ask?”

I continued to stare at the ceiling. “Well, I was always under Nick’s watch. It was okay for him to do anything, but catching me doing anything, and watch out! I guess I would have liked to experiment more, but I felt so much like I had to be on the lookout for Ma, I didn’t.” “Did you want to?” She gave me that signature Sionna look; the tilted head and lifted arched brows.

“Why? Can you get some pot? We could hang out at your house and get really stoned and see what happens.”

She laughed, “I know lots of people at school that can hook me up. It’s not a big deal really. The way I see it, it will probably be legalized in a few years anyway. I mean, the government doesn’t really give a crap about health, they just want to tax things, so it’s coming.” “You think so?” I was a little surprised. “I never even thought of that. They could just tax it like cigarettes though.”

“Exactly. Okay hun, I will do your dirty work, and get in touch with you later. I have study group in a half hour.”

My heart sank. I hated saying goodbye to her. Back to the old grind. “Yeah, I have to work at five anyhow.” We said our goodbyes, she walked out and said a few words to Ma, and I got back to the drudgery of real life.

6 The night went so slowly, there were hardly any orders phoned in. It was nice outside, and I just stared out at the sidewalk and the park across the street. My mind floated from Sionna to Descartes, to Nick, to the prospect of a little vacation via marijuana, and then back to the pizza oven again. I started to get very sleepy, so on break I headed two doors down to a small restaurant where a couple people were inside eating pie and drinking coffee. I ordered a large black coffee to go. I needed the jolt to get through the next hour at work and then take care of Ma and finish my paper.

When I walked out, I turned to the left to head back to the pizza place, and when I looked up, there was Kevin McCleary right in front of me. He was one of the regulars down at Moxie’s. “Hey man, what’s up?” He smiled in an excited way. “Haven’t seen you much down at the gym. What’s goin’ on?” Kevin was a regular weight lifter who adhered to a very strict diet and prided himself on his body. His arms looked like the hulk, and he had his short hair gelled, and parted crisply on the side. At the gym, he was the guy to ask about protein supplements and vitamins. He did his research well, which was apparent from his small waist and muscled quads that pulled tightly on his pant legs. Even though he was much healthier, he usually went ga-ga over anything that Nick did. He would complement him on his technique, and spot him with heavy bar bench presses. He was an ass-kisser to the farthest extent possible. “Hi Kev, umm, just haven’t had the time I guess. I’ve been taking some classes at school and working still.” I tried to look enthused with the conversation.

“Man, I heard what happened at Joe’s. What the hell?” His face contorted, and eyes got big. “I heard you stopped Nick from beating some guy’s ass! Man! That’s tough shit! They said you hauled off and clocked Nick. They said you had some pretty big balls! I couldn’t believe it. I’m in awe, I mean, standin’ up to Nick? That is the shit. People at the gym were all talkin’ about it. We haven’t seen Nick in a while either, so I figured it was true. Is it?” “Look, I don’t know who told you that, but it totally isn’t the truth. Actually, Nick almost kicked my ass, so don’t think I’m a hero or anything. I mean, I just tried to stop him. That’s all.” This concerned me. If Nick heard this version of the story, he really would kick my ass. Nick doesn’t like to be bad-mouthed. “Please – tell everybody it wasn’t like that. I’m sure Nick is just busy or something. He’ll be back there, I’m sure of it. Don’t treat him any different. He’s just that same old Nick, know what I mean?”

“Sure, sure, man. I got ya’ covered. But I’m just sayin’, it’s all over town. You are the hottest topic flyin’ around. People are saying that Nick’s little brother is a badass!” He just smiled at me and gave a weird chuckle.

“Don’t believe everything you hear.” I slapped him on the back and headed back to the pizza place. That was unreal. What is going on around here? First of all, I had to think, why do people give a shit? How do stories get so confused? It was like the old telephone game where kids sat in a circle. The first person said something, and by the time it got around to the end, it was completely different. People are annoyingly stupid. It also made the pit of my stomach ache. Most of the time, I would be glad to be the hero of any story, just not one that involved Nick. I felt like a fugitive, like I had to hide out until this whole ridiculous thing just went away. Later that night I called Sionna and told her what happened. She just asked me how I felt about it, and I told her the truth. She said that was not productive. I should have a better outlook, she said. I should be capable of being the hero of the story for once, even if it isn’t true. I should look at it as an opportunity for Nick to eat some humble pie, if he even hears that story, which she thinks he probably won’t. I got ready for bed, and, as I brushed my teeth and looked at myself in the mirror, I heard her voice in my head. I had to face the truth – I wasn’t the same shadow of the boy I once was. I had to grow some balls. Why did I shy away from the spotlight? Why should Nick have all the glory his whole life, and me have none? Life was so mixed up, and I was exhausted. I came to the conclusion as I fell asleep that it’s over. There is nothing to be done differently now. I will have to deal with the consequences from Nick someday. I hoped that someday would never come.

After class the next day, I got to talk to Sionna quickly at lunchtime. We were planning our big afternoon with the weed she had acquired. I was excited, and nervous in a certain sort of way. It had been a long time since I had smoked a little pot back in high school, but I do remember talking and laughing for a long time, then trying to sit through a Rocky movie. I can’t remember which one it was, but it might have been the one where he fought the big Russian blond guy. I saw her sitting on the front porch of her house as I walked up. The sun was out, but there was a hint of rain to come. The grass was getting green, and the bulldog fenced in next door was doing his bark-grunt routine as I veered away from him. The house was an old duplex. She rented the right side as you faced the front. It was an old neighborhood, and as I looked at the houses up and down the block, they all shifted into a rather grey tone, punctuated by blue or green shutters, American flags here and there, and gravel driveways bursting with the new weeds of springtime. Rusted out cars lined the street, and a few kids rode down the sidewalks on skateboards. She smiled at me, and I hugged her a little too long before we went inside. We sat on the old, lumpy, chocolate colored couch. She said, “Well, I got a little bit for us to smoke. The guy I know at campus was willing to sell me half the amount he likes to, but I’ve known him for four years, so he accommodated me.”

“What do we smoke it in?” I looked around searching for some smoking implement. “I have an old ceramic bowl. Hold on, let me see if I can find it.” She started rummaging around the living room, going through doors and shelves, until she came to a little red, oriental box. She opened the lid and retrieved a small, four inch long blue ceramic pipe with black swirly designs on it.

“Where did you get that?” I was a little surprised she would have anything so ‘permanent’, instead of just making a pipe out of aluminum foil or something. “Oh my gosh! I’ve had this for probably ten or twelve years. I really don’t sit around and smoke pot – I’ve been a little busy.” She just laughed and we giggled together. “No, I’m sure that your workload doesn’t jive with sitting around wasting time.” I responded.

“Well, that’s what we are doing today, just sitting around wasting time!” She started to laugh again. “I am glad I get to do this, because I love just being with you, and I think we might have some time to talk about fun stuff for once.”

“Yea, maybe we will. Who knows, maybe we’ll just get horny, or sleepy or something.” My mind started wandering around at the possibilities. She opened the plastic baggie and pinched a little of the pot into the bowl of the pipe. “I’ll go first,” she said, smiling her Sionna smile. She lit the bowl and the green leaves shriveled and popped as she sucked in the smoke. She tried to hold it for a few seconds, then started coughing as the smoke came out in little puffs, then a huge exhale. “Wow! That is pretty strong. I don’t think I’ll need much of that. Here, you go.” She held the little pipe out, and I took it. She lit it as I inhaled. The fragrant dark smell of it felt nostalgic in some way. It was like I was transported back in time. I felt like a kid again. The smoke hit my lungs like a blast off a flame-thrower. I tried to keep it in, but the smoke rushed out in a lurch. I just laughed and coughed some more.

“Yowsa! You’re right. I don’t need much of that either.” We just sat back and rested a couple of minutes, then she walked over to put in a CD by Green Day. We sat back and listened to a song, “… “Another turning point; A fork stuck in the road. Time grabs you by the wrist; Directs you where to go”

“What do you think this song means?” I asked her. I wondered what she would come up with. She always speculated on the meanings of things; songs, dreams, movies, and the like. “I think it just means that none of us knows what will happen in life, but we have to make the best of things. In the end, I guess we’ll see that everything is alright.” She just twirled her brown hair around her finger, moving the bristly ends over her cheek.

“That sounds about right, guess I never thought about it before.” I sat there staring at the opposite side of the room. “I think I’m stoned. Ha ha ha ha.” I started laughing and smirking. We talked about lots of things, which I find hard to recall now. I do remember talking about dreams and interpretations of dreams, Freud, psychology in general, and then something grabbed me as funny. She told me she could sometimes see “people’s auras.” I asked her what that meant. She said, “Well, you will probably agree that we are made of energy, right?” “Right.”

“And energy has been proven to never end, right?”

“Right.”

“Well, energy fields surround our bodies. We kind of emanate the energy. Different people emit different colors around them, and sometimes, when I’m really lucky, I can see the colors.”

“That’s so cool! What color am I? Do you see my color right now?” I was intrigued and wanted to know about my energy.

“No, I can’t see it right now. But I can say that once or twice I saw it, and you are a beautiful color of blue, like light blue.” She smiled. To me, the color blue is peaceful and soothing. It is calm and friendly. It’s loyalty I suppose. You’re a loyal person.” “You think so?” My eyebrows went up in disbelief.

“All you have to do is realize that you have been loyal to your Ma and your brother your entire life. That should be enough to prove it to you.”

“I guess you’re right. What color do you think you are?”

“I can’t see my own, but I feel like I’m usually blue – or purplish.”

“What does purple mean?” I asked.

“I think it denotes faith, or mystical qualities of some sort. I don’t know, I hate to sound all pompous, but, I think I might have mystical qualities of some sort.” “You have mystified me! Let’s go outside, it’s too nice to sit here on the couch.” She grabbed her cotton fiber purse and slung it over her left shoulder.

“Ice cream! We must have ice cream!” she wailed.

“Totally.” I was having a huge attack of the munchies. We hit the sidewalk, and headed north to the Dairyland on the corner. There were only about three people hanging around the tables in front. Suddenly, I felt conspicuous, as if the house held protection, but out here in the world, it was just us. Two stoned people trying to communicate to an unlike species. It kind of freaked me out. Somehow I managed to order a soft serve chocolate in a waffle cone and found myself sitting with her on one of the curved cement benches around a sticky white table. We were so into eating our ice cream and saying “mmm” that I had no idea someone was watching us. I looked up, and there in front of me stood Bob, Nick’s buddy.

“Wow, man! How are you?” Bob stood there with his hands in his pockets, flannel shirt untucked, and draped loosely over the small beer belly on his front side. “Haven’t seen you since the big brawl at Joe’s.”

“Oh, hey man. Umm, yeah, it’s good to see you too. I guess not – guess not.” I found myself feeling really out of place. I realized two different parts of my life had just collided. My life with Sionna, and my life with people that were my supposed “friends.” “Hey, Bob, this is my girlfriend Sionna. Sionna, this is Bob.” I did the formal introduction. Sionna stood up and shook Bob’s hand.

“Nice to meet you.”

Bob responded with a “nice to meet you too.” “Did you know your boyfriend is famous?” He started chuckling and reached into his front shirt pocket for a Marlboro and lighter. “No, I had no idea.” She said, smiling and looking at me with a tilted head. Her eyes were a little red from the pot. I could tell she was trying not to laugh.

“Your boyfriend here single-handedly conquered the BEAST man!” He laughed out loud and light the cigarette.

“Knock it off Bob.” I just nodded my head and looked at the ground. “What the hell are you talking about man?” I really didn’t want a replay of that stupid incident, especially in front of Sionna.

“Man, you were right in Nick’s face. You moved like Bruce Lee, dog! I never seen him that pissed off in his life! You stopped that shit, man. You stopped it dead. Everybody is talking about it.”

“Oh no, don’t tell me that. I didn’t do anything anyone else wouldn’t have done. I just, I just didn’t want Nick to beat some poor guy’s ass over nothing.”

“Oh dude, you’re a hero. Everybody is bad-mouthing Nick. Sayin’ he’s a pussy, “scuse my language.” He nodded toward Sionna. “ Sayin” he’s not the same Nick as he used to be. All that shit.”

I breathed out a heavy sigh. “Please stop those stupid rumors, man. Nick is still Nick. I’m just me. Enough said.”

“’Nuff said is right! Okay, okay, I get ya. Don’t want to cause any trouble. Man, you might get pissed and kick my ass!” Bob slapped his thigh in an exaggerated motion. He laughed some more. “Tell Nick I want to go hang sometime.”

“I haven’t seen Nick.” I said. “You mean, you haven’t seen him either?” I started to worry what Nick was up to.

“No, man. I haven’t seen or heard from him since that night. I thought he would be at your Ma’s or something. You know, begging to the new king of the shit hill! Ha ha ha ha ha” Now he was being plain ridiculous. “Just kidding with ya bro, just kiddin. Um, well, if you see him around, tell him Bob wants to hang out okay?”

“Yea, sure Bob, sure. I will.” Bob said something to Sionna and walked down the street flicking his ashes out at the traffic.

“Wow,” she said. “You have some pretty interesting friends.” She started laughing. I had to laugh too.

“He’s NOT my friend. He’s Nick’s friend, I just got stuck hanging out with him, that’s all.” We went on eating and chatting, but there was something now nagging at the bottom of my brain. Where was Nick? He hadn’t talked to his friends, or been at the gym. I decided it was time to end this feud and find him. We ended up sleeping at her house, and actually had a great time. Great times go too fast.

7 Tough times went slowly. Ma was not usually a handful, but with all the other stuff on my plate, she was becoming one. I had to constantly check to see she took her pills because she would forget. Nick was never around, it’s like he disappeared off the face of the earth. This was becoming plain, old, bullshit. I had to find Nick, and even if it meant apologizing for stopping him from (in my opinion) making a complete ass out of himself, then so be it. I felt like Ma needed help – help I couldn’t give her anymore. She barely remembered what she ate for breakfast, who the next-door neighbor was, even though she had known Mrs. Copekny for fifteen years or so. It went on and on with brain dead living. I love my Ma, but she was beginning to drive me nuts. Half the time she slept in the chair, half the time in the bed. Sometimes she remembered to put pajamas on, sometimes not. It was like taking care of an oversized toddler, just more opinionated.

This morning she was in the chair when I got up. “I smell something burning, can you smell it?”

“Huh?” I wiped the sleep out of my eyes. Sure enough, the kitchen smelled like burning metal. The old coffeepot had boiled dry and the metal was starting to smell. I turned the burner off, grabbed the handle delicately with an oven mitt, and threw it into the sink to cool off. “Ma, how many times do I have to tell you NOT to try to cook anything? You’re going to burn the damn building down!”

“I did what?” she started sniveling. When I walked back into the living room, she had started to cry. It was like she would have sudden realizations of the magnitude of her senility, and the possible damage she could do from her brain dysfunction. I held her hands in mine. “Now, now, Ma…come on, don’t cry. It’s not that big of a deal, really.” I tried to comfort her the best I could. In the moment I really felt sorry for her. She stared up at me with tearful eyes, “I can’t remember anything anymore. I’m no good for anything.” Her shoulders rounded down, and the sobbing continued.

“Ma, really, stop.” Honestly, I didn’t have time for mental breakdowns right now. I had to get to school in an hour. “Its fine, Ma. Please stop.” I shook her hands and gave her a hug. “You’re great Ma. I love you.” She looked up at me with her deer eyes. “Nick doesn’t love me. He never comes to see me anymore. What’s wrong with him? Did I do something to make him mad?”

“No, of course not. I tell you what, I’ll go check on him. I’ll make sure everything is okay. Okay? Ma – you okay?”

“Yea, sure. I’m okay. Just make sure Nick is alright. It’s starting to worry me. My heart is a mess already. I feel it pounding a lot. Somedays I swear it’s going to pound right out of my chest.”

I took all this worth a grain of salt. If she wasn’t dizzy, she was having chest pains, or she felt so tired she couldn’t get out of the chair. It was all blurring together. Everything was blurring together. If I could get out of class a little early today, I would go over to Nicks. It was time this got sorted out so life could get back to normal. I stumbled back into the kitchen, cleared the counter crumbs and dirty dishes off, and made a quick bowl of cereal. It was a miracle my weight hadn’t wasted down to nothing. I survived on cereal, vending machine chips, and pizza half the time. It was a blessing to have Sionna come over and cook a decent meal for us. I had a tough time in English class that day. I was supposed to be concentrating on modern fiction, but my mind was drifting back to last night. I could feel the soft linen sheets, and Sionna’s skin. I wanted to snuggle back into her bed and hold her in the darkness. The remembered smell of lavender and citrus triggered my brain into a soft, calm space. Modern fiction could go to hell right now. My head actually began to nod. I quickly snapped back into place with the high-pitched cackle of my teachers laugh. She was responding to a classmate’s description of Humbert in “Lolita”.

“Yes, John, many people think this is not a novel about a disturbed adult corrupting a child, but a novel about a disturbed child corrupting an adult! Hahahahaa! Well, that’s it for today folks. On Thursday let’s talk more about this, and please start reading “SlaughterhouseFive”. I scooped up my books and glanced at the clock. It was only 3:45, so I had to check on Nick. After all, I promised Ma I would. I walked a fast pace to the bus stop and headed over to Nick’s apartment. It was on the other side of town, about a twenty minute trip by bus. I started to think to myself -what an ass. I can’t believe what an ass Nick is. Never before in my life had I ever thought of Nick this way. Times were changing, man. He once was the center of my world, and now he was just an annoying side-note. He was proving to be completely useless to Ma and me. Sionna was the center of my world now, and she actually deserved to be. When I think of the differences between them, man – one was hard-working and loud and independent and tough. And she was, okay - hard-working, independent, and tough. I just had to minus the “loud”. It was a different independence; a different toughness. Hers was soft, and light, and considerate of other people. His was hard, and dark; scary, and inconsiderate of everyone. I mean, he used to be considerate of us, but not anymore. My mind started to make up stories of what he might be doing. First, I thought maybe I would just break down the door and find him dead on the floor. Then, I thought I might enter slowly and look around to see the place filled with guns, and bombs, and Nick’s face all painted with camouflage black, just like the wackos who plan to bust up a place and kill a bunch of innocent people. I smiled at my imagination as I stared out the window watching the city streets fly by. I looked up to see that we had just passed Miller Street, so I pulled the cord. I exited on the corner of Werner and headed into the brick building where Nick lives. It was pretty roomy, or seemed that way, because it was built back in the twenties, and had huge twelve foot ceilings. The old railings were carved into ornate patterns on their ends, and the light fixtures were beautiful original glass from back in the day. I tapped lightly at first, “Nick, Nick?” After getting no response, I knocked a little louder. That first scenario of finding him dead entered my mind ever so briefly. “Stop being ridiculous” I whispered out loud to myself. Then I heard a faint shuffling sound, and thought he might be walking toward the door. The old door creaked open just a slit; the tarnished gold chain on the other side still attached. I could see the crazy brown hair and pox-marked face on the other side. “What do YOU want?” Nick said accusingly.

“Will you let me in, please?” I answered with the best tone I could muster. “What for?” he said.

“I think it’s about time we talked this out. I mean, shit, Nick, Ma is worried about you.” Just silence from the other side of the door. His eyes squinted. “I really don’t need to talk to you man. Why don’t you just go home? Haven’t you done enough damage?”

“Nick…please…let me in so we don’t have to talk through a crack. Okay?” “This better be good, man.” He closed the door briefly to unlock the chain, then opened it up so I could come inside. The living room looked like a damn tornado had gone through. Papers, trash, and empty food containers lined the coffee table and side table. The rug was covered in lint and clothing that had been dropped around at random. “Is everything okay?” I asked. I stepped over a pile of magazines and made room on the sofa so I could sit down. “What do YOU think, Moron?” he spit angrily back at me. I had nothing to say, I just stared blankly at him, not knowing what to expect. “You’ve ruined my life! I can’t go anywhere, Man. People are talkin’ shit about me. I can’t go to the gym. I know people are talkin’ at work too. They’re sayin’ all kinds of crap, like I’m a pussy, my little brother tried to kick my ass, all kinds of bullshit. All because of your big mouth! All because you tried to step in and be a hero. You piece of shit, you. I supposed you started some rumor to make yourself look good. Well it worked! My life is ruined, man. My reputation is dog shit. Thanks a lot Bro, thanks a lot.” I tried to remain calm. The last thing I needed was Nick getting more pissed off than he already was, and pounding my ass. “Nick, man, whoa. Slow down. I didn’t do anything, man.” I used a slow, soft voice. It felt like I was trying to tame a wild dog. He just snickered, then got up and shuffled into the kitchen to grab a cold cup of coffee which he shoved into the microwave to heat for a few seconds. He walked back into the living area like a man obsessed, a man whose only aim was to have revenge on someone. I thought that someone was most likely me. “Look, Nick. I don’t know exactly what happened that night. It’s kind of a blur, actually. I mean, I think I was just concerned you were going to hurt that guy for no reason. Anything I did just came out without thinking…..I truly am sorry if you think I did something wrong. It’s not what I intended to do. I just wanted to hang out, you know? Just hang out and enjoy the night. That’s all man, that’s all.” I finished my apology speech and waited to see what would happen next.

“Well, let me tell you something.” he held up a finger aimed at me. “You…YOU…are not the brother I knew, man. You’re not! All I know is now you’re some hot shit college kid with a hoity-toity girlfriend, and you know everything. Everything!”

I had to stand up to his accusations. “Nick, I’m not like that. I’m not. You just need to come over and see Ma and me more often. If you met Sionna, I know you would like her. Yes, she is smart. Yes, I am trying to dig my way out of my stupid job. But, that’s all, man. That’s all there is to it. I don’t know everything. I hardly know anything. That’s the thing about going to school; you find out how much there is out there that you don’t know.” I started to hang my head and look at my hands folded in front of me. “That’s where I am. I’m working my ass off, and finding out how stupid I am. That’s it, man.”

Nick just stared at me for a while. He sat back against the couch and contemplated what I had just said. I thought it was working. I thought he actually considered I might be telling the truth of it, which I was. The silence was deafening. I felt like a man on trial, waiting to hear if I had life without parole, or the death sentence. He looked around, had a big sigh, and then his eyes bored into my skull.

“I don’t really give a shit how hard you’re working. I don’t give two shits about your girlfriend, and I don’t give three shits about how dumb you are. But here is what I have to say. You are my little brother. I do care about you and Ma, and I will let it slide this time. But don’t you ever, EVER, interrupt me in public again. You got that?” He stood up over me. “I said, you got that?” His voice escalated to a louder and more dangerous pitch.

“Yes, Nick. I got that. I will try to rectify the situation with your friends, which I want you to know, I have been doing since I heard the truly fucked up story that’s out there. I mean, really…do they think I could actually stop you? Really? That’s so dumb, I mean, it’s just a stupid made up story.”

“It is a stupid made up story. And yes, you will stop it. And yes, you could never stop me from doing what I want in a million years.”

“So, will you see Ma? She’s dyin’ to see you, man.” I looked at him with pleading eyes. “Yeah, I’ll come over there tomorrow. Tell her I’ve been sick or somethin’. Don’t tell her about any of this shit. She doesn’t know about any of this shit, right?” His forehead creased downward in suspicious manner.

“Of course not. You know Ma. Hell, she cried today because she forgot the burner was on in the kitchen. It took me a half hour to calm her down. She’s losing her memory big-time.” “I know, I know. She’ll probably have to go to an old folks home one of these days. It’s the pits. I’m just tellin’ you man, that you have to make sure you’re takin’ care of her. She can’t be by herself, so you better be giving her her meds, or else she’s going to end up in the damn hospital.”

“Absolutely.” I stood and made my way to the door. “Thanks, Nick. It means a lot to me that you can forgive me. I’ll try to smooth things out. We’ll see you tomorrow then?” “Yeah, yeah, see you tomorrow.” Nick opened the door, and I left feeling a little better. At least I would have some help with Ma. He was still pissed off, but I knew it would fade. The door shut, and on the other side, I heard him rustling around in the papers, and dishes. I hoped he was picking them up, but maybe he was just rearranging the mess to lay down. I went on home to check on Ma.

8 Ma was actually laughing! Laughing! I couldn’t believe Sionna got her laughing like that. It made me feel sad that I hadn’t heard that sound in so long. It was gentle and deep, really heartfelt.

“On Halloween, we would watch from the bushes, and my brothers would tip those outhouses over!” She laughed some more. She could clearly remember something from fifty years ago, but not anything she did today, or yesterday. I smiled and watched her face. She was so animated telling stories about her childhood. She was lucky, and had grown up on a small farm in Northern Illinois. She moved to Milwaukee after meeting dad. In my mind, I thought, ‘what a mistake’, but it was her life, and that is what she did.

“Sounds like you were a bunch of troublemakers,” Sionna said with a sly smile. “We were just plain hoodlums! But I didn’t have a care in the world. It really was a nice place to grow up. My parents were good people, hardworking, and regular members of the church.” She sat still for a minute, then looked at me. “Why don’t we go to church anymore?” She asked me, like I was the parent, and she was the child.

“You always say you don’t want to Ma. Do you want to? I’ll take you if you want to.” “Yes, I do. That would be fine. Let’s go next Sunday. It’s been too long.” “Okay Ma, we’ll go.” Ugh. Like I had time for that too. It was bad enough working, and studying. Maybe I could just drop her off and pick her up. No, that wouldn’t work with her dementia. Better yet, Nick could get off his lazy ass and take her. That made me laugh. If Nick stepped foot into the church, I’m sure a bolt of lightning would hit the place. I could just see Father Van Hout giving his homily from the pulpit, seeing Nick, and choking. I laughed out loud. Sionna looked at me suspiciously. “What’s so funny?” she said.

“Oh nothin’, just thinking about church and Nick, and the combination.” I gave a snicker under my breath. She just nodded her head and went into the kitchen to cut some peach pie she brought over. She would heat each slice, and drop vanilla ice cream on it. Ma loved that stuff. Ma and I were just zoning out to the tube when there was a knock at the door. I walked over to open it, but it opened by itself. In walked Nick.

“Oh, hey, um hi, how are you doing?” I stammered. Suddenly I realized the fateful day had come – Nick and Sionna were going to meet, whether I liked it or not. “Oh My God! It’s you Nick! I thought we would never see you again. Where have you been hiding?” Ma was so excited, I thought she might fall out of her chair. She leaned forward to get her kiss on the cheek from the prodigal son.

“Oh, you know, just busy working and crap like that. How ya doin’ Ma? This one been treatin’ you all right?” He asked about me like I was her hired nurse’s aide. “Silly you, of course, of course. We are all just fine.” Sionna walked in with two plates of pie. She set them on the table to wipe her hands on her jeans. Then she held out her hand to shake the hand of my brother; my brother who looked at her hand like it was attached to an alien being.

“I’m Sionna. You must be Nick. Nice to meet you, I’ve heard so much about you.” “Uh, yea, likewise,” he reluctantly shook her hand.

“You’re just in time for pie” she said, and started to turn. She stopped in her tracks as he responded, “No thanks. I can’t eat that crap. Sugar makes me feel bloated and sick.” “Alright, that’s fine. Let me know if you want anything. Don’t want to make you feel left out” she said.

“Right.” He elongated the word as if she had hit the nail on the head. Left out for sure. Silence filled the room, with only the sound of the forks lightly scraping on plates. “This is really good Nick…are you sure you don’t want some?” I asked.

“No, man. I’m sure.” Nick was staring Sionna up and down, as if deciding what to make of her. “So, I hear you’re a university lady,” he said. I thought I could detect a slight sneer from the corner of his mouth.

“That’s right.” Sionna just continued chewing with a polite smile.

“What are you gonna do when you get done?” It was a valid question, and I halfway believed my brother could pull off an intelligent conversation, convincing everyone he honestly cared about another person besides himself. On the other hand, I sat with nervous anticipation that World War III may break out at any moment. I waited for the answer… “Well, that’s a tough one,” she began. “I have a major in English, and will have a minor in Philosophy, so, I am thinking college professor, if I can get my student teaching done and write a decent thesis. It will be another year of work before I can honestly call myself a graduate, however.” I wondered if Nick even knew what she was talking about. He slowly nodded his head, and with a heavy sigh said, “Well, professor, I hope the best for ya. It’s tough out there, and, like I was tellin’ my kid brother here….sometimes all that school just doesn’t pay off. So, I hope you can break through that glass ceiling, or whatever. Because, you know, it’s even harder for a woman to teach at that level, or so I’ve heard.” My insides shriveled a little bit.

Sionna set her plate lightly on the table. “Well, Nick, I have to disagree with you there. As a matter of fact, in the last forty years, bachelor’s degrees earned by female students have risen from about 35 to 55 percent. Actually, there are more females in college today than males. We make up about sixty percent of all undergraduate students. This is very encouraging, and impressive, if you consider many of those women are schooling part-time, juggling the demands of family and work. In my line of thinking, I just don’t see how the future of education cannot be significantly changed for the better, by the presence of more female professors. You can’t keep a good woman down, so to speak.” She just smiled at him, picked up her plate again, and rose from the couch to take Ma’s plate.

“Oh my,” Ma said, looking at her with a tilted head. It looked like Ma could mistake Sionna for the second coming of Christ.

“Well, if you ask me,” Nick responded, “that might be one of the reasons this country is heading down the flippin’ tubes. The women in this country can’t stay home and take care of their kids.” He looked at Ma briefly, “no disrespect Ma, I know you had no choice.” “You might be right in saying that children need the guidance of a mother figure. And you also may be right in saying that not only your mother, but many other women today, have no choice in the matter. Once you figure in the need for a dual income family just to make ends meet, and the fact that single parent families are climbing at a substantial rate, this is true. Women cannot afford to stay at home and “take care of kids” as you say. But I would have to disagree with you that this is purely the reason for a failing society, and I have to say that women in the area of education are adding other dimensions to the learning environment that have enriched the lives of students. Women bring different ways of thinking to the table, and I think students enjoy seeing this. Diversity helps us learn. After all, we are all humans trying to live on this planet and make a difference.” She just walked into the kitchen before Nick could spit out another bigoted remark.

Inside I was jumping up and down, and yelling “that’s my girl!” I was so proud of her at that moment. Nick was sitting there stunned. Never before had someone out-worded him. Of course, no one Nick knew was actually capable of doing that. At the same time, I had fear. How would he behave towards her after this wordy showdown? She had verbally beat the shit out of him. I was loving this. “Well,” I said, “who would have known all that stuff?” I gave a slightly desperate laugh. “Gee Nick, I’m really glad you came to check on Ma. Aren’t you glad Ma?” I tried to divert attention away from Sionna.

“Oh, yes, yes, I’ve missed you dear” Ma said sweetly. He stopped internally steaming, and asked how she felt, when she had to revisit the doctor, and about her medications. “Oh we have that all figured out. See, the kids have put all my pills into these little containers so I won’t get confused. Isn’t that right dear?” she looked towards me. “Yea, right Ma.”

“Thanks to Sionna, everything is straightening out nicely.” She smiled and folded her hands in her lap. I thought Nick would scream. He couldn’t stand the fact that Sionna was smart, and organized, and nothing went wrong just because he was away. As a matter of fact, things got better when he was gone, and we all knew it. He finally stood, gave Ma another peck on the cheek and said, “Well, I guess I better get going. Someone in this room has a job they have to go to tomorrow.” His smile was thin and snake-like. “Sounds like you two have it all figured out, with help of course from Doctor Sionna.” His sarcasm floated around the room and permeated the air like foul gas. Right then Sionna walked back into the room.

“Oh gosh, are you leaving already? We hardly had a chance to talk at all.” She was sincere in this matter. She actually did want to get to know Nick. Me? I just wanted to get rid of Nick. More and more, his presence made me sick. It was this feeling in the pit of my stomach like there was too much bile, like I couldn’t smile with him around, like I was on the defensive all the time. Like I didn’t need him anymore.

“Um, yeah. Well, I’m sure I’ll see you around. Take care of this numbskull” he said grabbing my shoulders and jiggling me around a little bit. My eyes wandered up to see his face all red, and wild hair dancing around like blazes. Sionna smiled and said she would, her face the opposite, like a still, calm pool of water. I opened the door for him, and as he walked through the threshold, he lightly grabbed my shirt and whispered, “take care of Ma”, as he pulled his face in close to mine.

“Nick, you know I will” is all I had to say. I watched him walk down the hallway, already shoving his hand in his pocket to find a cigarette, which he probably would light in the elevator. He could care less if someone complained.

9 So, just like A Tale of Two Cities, it was the best of times, and it was the worst of times. I was keeping a low profile. The differences between Sionna and Nick were even more than I thought they would be. She never spoke about him, but he always had a snide remark about her. I didn’t want to start a war, so I just kept my mouth shut. Nick came around more to check on Ma, and he even started laying out her pills and bringing her treats to eat. Actually, when I look back, I could see that his behavior was a little over the top. She began to trust Nick again; actually doting on him like she used to. Nick was in – and I was out. Just as well, I had plenty to do, believe me. If I wasn’t taking orders at the pizza joint, I was going to the library to research the Peloponnesian Wars, or Greek mythology, or some stuff that was very necessary for modern life. As I read about Athena, my mind drifted to Sionna. They were both Goddesses of intelligence, and skill; peaceful warriors born fully armored and ready for a battle. Not that she looked for battles, but she was no one to reckon with.

Nick, on the other hand, was more like this God named Menoetius. He was described as “hubristic”, which means exceedingly prideful and impetuous to the very end. Was I in the middle of some sort of tragic Greek play? Maybe Nick and me were like the two Cyclops twins who kept trying to beat each other to the top of the mountain by throwing stones all over the one behind them. I always thought I loved Nick, but then when I met Sionna, it threw everything into a different light. Love wasn’t competitive, or demeaning. Maybe I shouldn’t have felt like that with him all along. I guess that’s why they say you live and learn. Ma was really our touchstone at this point. If it weren’t for her, we may not ever see each other. It’s not like I even had time to spend with Nick. Even if he begged me to come over, which he wouldn’t, I couldn’t get there anyway. Work, school, Sionna, Ma. That was it, I didn’t have time for any more. Sionna and I were talking about the universe one day. It was one of those days that turned out to be nice when you thought it was going to suck. You get something in your mind, like school, and then work, and check Ma, and stop at the post office, and all those little things that nag at the back of your brain until you get them done. Why did it seem that lately I had more things nagging at me than I used to? I knew why. It was because I had more to do and more responsibilities. I wasn’t just sitting around and then going to work, I was actually doing something. It started off to be one of those annoying days. Then, out of the blue, a class cancelled due to teacher staffing issues, then the pizza joint was slow. I was free to just hang out for once, so I headed over to see my girlfriend. She was writing something on the computer in her living room about similarities in the creation stories of different religions. We started discussing this, and stuff started to make a little sense in a way. Like she said, the more you look into some things, the less you believe any of it can be true.

We talked about God, and the nature of time and space. The universe is so vast with so many galaxies, but not that long ago, man had a hard time grasping the idea that the earth was round, or that it revolved around the sun. Now it seems so stupid; but what if what we believed right now seems ludicrous in another hundred years? People will laugh at us for thinking one religion was right, and the others were wrong. They would laugh at the fact we spent so much of our time trying to follow strict rules that we think will save us from a place of fire and destruction. They may have an answer to what God really is. Maybe, like she says, it’s just energy. The energy is in all of us, and everything. It existed before time as we know it, and will go on forever. Not that I can even wrap my head around “forever”. Does energy give a flying rat’s ass if I live or die? I don’t know. But down deep inside I think that if we all put our energy into something, like prayer, it has to work. Energy has power, so all together it has to increase that power. Like I said, I have no idea, but this is what I hope happens. The most crazy thing ever is that Nick took Ma to mass. He just popped up Saturday afternoon and said he would take her to St. Patrick’s for 4 o’clock. I didn’t even know what to say. Nick, at church? I had to pick my jaw up off my chest. Ma was flustered. “What should I wear?” We said to just wear anything, because God sees you all the time anyway. She bought into that and shuffled off with Nick. As they took off in his Pontiac, all I could see in my mind was lightning bolts hitting the aisle as he stepped up to genuflect. If he gave confession, we wouldn’t see him until next Christmas. I had to think to myself, “why”? In the past, I would have just been relieved someone else was doing something, but now, I had to question Nick’s actions.

Now, you might think I am just being paranoid, but you don’t know Nick like I do. You don’t just go from tough guy, leader of the pack, scary mother, to pet your Mom’s head and escort her to church. What is that? I look back at all the things Nick has ever been, and a calm, caring softy is just not one of them. Did I do something to Nick at the bar that changed him forever? I had to hope not. After all, we all love Nick the way he is. He is our fearless leader, our warrior, our Viking hero. He is also one mean son of a bitch. Down deep inside, he is “us”, and I mean that he takes care of his friends and family in his own special way. What would we be? What would I be, without Nick?

There is no answer to that question as far as I know. I am riding in the passenger seat of Sionna’s Toyota Civic hatchback. It was an old car, but functional always. Great gas mileage. The road wound up and down the soft hills of Eastern Wisconsin in a rhythmic calming way. It looked like a postcard with the bright blue sky, a few cumulous clouds, pine trees, and maples showing their green leaves in the summer sun. It was absolutely beautiful and reminded me of the pictures I had seen of England’s pasturelands. It was the first week of summer break, and I was actually taking a break for once. School was out for the week before summer session started, Ma was in the hands of Nick the chameleon, and we were on the way to visit Sionna’s parents, Mushroom and Ginger.

“They actually like being called Mushroom and Ginger? You’re sure?” I had a strange vision of walking up to two old hippies with smoke stringing out of their mouths, moccasins, the works…..

“Yep. Just call them Mushroom and Ginger. They have gone by that since the 60’s. They wouldn’t even respond to Robert and Margery.”

“Oh, so they do have real names”, I snickered as I caught a glimpse of a deer dashing among the forest floor to my right.

“Yes. They were raised right here in the good ‘ol Midwest, christened with proper names and everything!” Sionna smiled, and I could feel a sense of happiness coming from her. She didn’t get to see her parents very often and I knew she had fond memories of them, and they adored their only child.

“I can’t imagine they have great relationships with their own parents?” I asked. How do you relate to your kids when they change their names and travel around watching the Grateful Dead?

“Actually, my father’s parents had five other kids, so I think they just mentally divorced him. I do remember seeing them once at the farm. It was a bad scene with a lot of yelling and my grandmother crying. I just remember her hair piled up in a beehive, and a cheap looking blue polyester dress. She looked at me through the screen door, tears streaming down her face. I think she knew her husband would never mend ways with dad. And of course, he never did. They’re both dead now.” I looked at her with pity as she wistfully continued staring through the front windshield, moving her steering wheel in a sleepy manor. “Mom’s parents tried really hard to be in our lives when I was little, but Grandma and Grandpa just didn’t get tofu.” She started to chuckle. They also didn’t get making yogurt, unpasteurized milk, drumming around an outside fire, you know.”

She smiled and thought, “They also discouraged any belief in the tooth fairy, the Easter bunny, or Santa Claus. Elves….that was possible. Wood nymphs, the spiritual life of plants, trees, and water….all ok. I guess you could say I never got my hopes up unnecessarily” “So, your parents are pagans.”

She looked at me and decidedly said, “Yea. I guess that’s as close as we’re going to get.”

PART 3

This is Murphy’s Law, whatever you think is going to happen is not what happens. Basically, it’s pure irony. Like that song by Morissette, “It’s like a fly in your Chardonnay, it’s like rain on your wedding day….” In other words, just when you think everything is going your way, man, suddenly, it isn’t. It makes me want to wake up pessimistic. It’s better for me to feel shitty, and have everything turn out better than expected, than to wake up all happy, and have things go to shit. And that’s exactly what happened….everything went to shit. It’s such a long story, I guess I’ll just relive this nightmare. I am a guy. What I mean by that is, I look like a guy, I act like a guy, and I think like a guy. I always grew up not having any motives for anything I did. It’s quite obvious I had no future plans for myself until later in life, but it’s more than that. I just trusted people; I took them for their word. If someone said to me that they were going to do something, then, dammit, they were going to do something. I also did’t try to analyze things that people say. Until recently, I mean. When you are just a guy living by yourself, you have no reason to distrust or analyze anyone’s words. I mean, I just don’t think like that. Then, when a woman enters your life, you start to see things from a different angle.

Wow, your brother is sure suddenly into taking care of your mother, isn't he?

Siona looked at me with a quizzical nod of the head.

I mean, I can hardly remember the last time I made dinner over there. He always is taking her out or bringing something over for her.

Yeah. I don't know what's gotten into him. Does seem kind of weird, doesn't it? I was thinking now of the last time I sat and watched TV with her. It wasn't that I felt like I was neglecting her, but it was kind of a weight off my shoulders. I had been the caretaker for so long and needed an extended break.

I'm pretty sure he'll be back to neglecting her in no time. Then I'll have to start hanging out there more. I'm sorry for all this. I wish we didn't have to constantly worry about her. I know it's a drag. Siona looked upset and reached up to pat the side of my head.

Oh no, no, it's not like that at all. I can only hope I have a son or daughter like you to take care of me when I'm old. Isn't that one of the reasons we have children? To help us in our golden years? Well, I suppose. It just feels kind of like we're indentured servants or something. Oh my god, you're reading too much.

She was laughing at me.

I think of it as part of the circle of life. First they have to feed us and change our diapers. They teach us everything we know to become independent people. Then we're all grown up and at the same level. Then fnally they start to trend downwards and we're helping them eat and possibly changing diapers. We have to remind them of all the things that happen during their lives. The cycle goes on and on. She had a faraway look in her eyes. I knew she was thinking of her own parents. Right, well, I don't have anyone around yet to change my diapers. We both chuckled a little. Unless you'd like to sign up, of course. No, that's okay.

Do you want to have children someday? I sincerely asked, waiting to hear some revelation about her future plans.

To be honest, I'm too busy right now to think about it. I'm going on 30 though, so I guess I better get my shit together if I'm going to.

She let out a big sigh, like it was just another thing to add to her things-to-do list. I really want to be ready. I want to honestly have lots of time to devote to taking care of another human. I think that's the least I can do.

I agree. Look at all the people that don't have time, and the kids they end up with. What about you? Do you want kids?

I suppose. I do need someone to change those diapers. She leaned up to hit me on the arm. The night progressed as usual. We worked on our respective homework, walked around snacking on chips, got ready for bed, messed around, and fell asleep. It was a great night. It was a normal night. It was the last normal night.

Chapter 13.

It was now September and school was in full swing. I had to stop at the house and check on Ma before going in to do the lunch shift at the parlor. Looking back, I had a strange feeling when walking up the steps and then into the elevator. Like a feeling of dread or just sadness. I chalked it up to being away from Siona. Every time I had to leave her, I felt a little down.

I still ofcially lived here though. My clothes and all my stuff were still in the old apartment. I just kept a few essentials at Siona's house. Opening the front door, I found complete quiet and stillness. Something wasn't right. I searched the place and didn't fnd Ma, her purse, her coat, nothing. Where the hell would she be at 9 a.m.? Nick took her to church last night and was supposed to bring her back and make sure she had dinner. I saw no sign of either of them. Walking over to the phone, I could see the red blinking light going on and off, signaling there was a message. I pushed the button to hear the recordings. "You have 5 missed calls."

Okay, no one ever called except Nick to leave short blurbs giving excuses for why he wouldn't be here or threaten me with upcoming booties. This time it was a bunch of scary messages. Mr. Olson, this is Ofcer Mike Dupuis from the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Department. Mr. Olson, once again, this is Ofcer Dupuis from the Milwaukee County Sheriff's Department. We need to talk to you regarding your family.

Hello Mr. Olson, this is Patricia Owens, one of the nurses at Frodo Hospital, with an update on your family members.

Oh my god. What had happened? I was so freaked out. I didn't know what to do frst. I rewound the tape to the frst one and copied down the number the policeman left.

I called him. Yes Mr. Olson, as a matter of fact, we stopped by your mother's apartment early this morning but apparently missed you. Would you be able to come down here to the station so we could have a word with you?

Yeah, I guess. What's going on? Is Ma okay? I mean, I wasn't here last night. I have no idea where she is. I was rubbing my temples, breaking out in a cold sweat.

Yes, we know Mr. Olson. Everything will be okay. We just think it best if you came in to talk directly to us. Okay. Sure. I'll be there in a few minutes. I tried to call Nick but got no answer. Feeling frantic, I jumped onto my bike and started pedaling to the police station. I was so out of it I almost ran a kid off the sidewalk. "What's where you going, asshole?" a kid screamed at me as he jumped off his skateboard and onto the gravel shoulder. I just kept going.

In my mind was so much jumbled stuff. Did Ma have a stroke? Where the hell was Nick? My mind was spinning and I felt like I was going to puke. Why hadn't I come home last night to make sure everything was okay? Let the self-fagellation begin.

The cop shop was an ancient stone building on the corner of Central and 3rd. The thick stones around the windows had intricate carvings of lion heads and stars of some sort. There was a metal plaque on the side of the front door that said 1898.

I went in and faced a wall of sound and people scattered around waiting. There was a chest-high counter in front of me with a brunette ofcer on the other side. I told her my name and she immediately gave me a concerned sorry look.

Oh yes, Mr. Olson. Come on back here and have a seat. Ofcer Dupuis will be with you in a minute. Would you like a cup of coffee?

Thanks. No thanks. My mouth felt like a piece of felt. I could have used some water but was too worried to think any more about it. It only took about 2 seconds for Ofcer Dupuis to show up. He was a big guy with graying hair and a thin mustache. Very ofcial looking, for sure.

Thanks for coming down to the station, Mr. Olson. It seems that there has been a serious accident involving your brother, Mr. Nicholas Olson, and your mother, a Mrs. Olivia Olson. Last night about 8 p.m. they were hit broadside while going through the intersection of Werner and Lowe. I regret to tell you that your brother is in serious condition at Frodo and your mother passed away at the scene.

Her body is at Sacred Heart Funeral Home. I know this is a huge shock to you. We will help you with whatever we can.

He continued to talk, but I have no recollection of what he said. Everything is a blur. I felt so sick. I asked for water. I asked about Nick. "Can I call someone? Can I have a ride to the hospital?" He said maybe I should just sit there a minute and collect my thoughts. My hands were shaking trying to hold onto this styrofoam cup with cold water.

He let me use the phone on his desk. I called Siona and left a message. She would be in her comparative religion class now. I didn't know what to do frst. They gave me a ride to the hospital and the ICU scene was just as dreamlike. Lots of people in scrubs running around, beeping sounds from all directions, and funky smells like urine and chemicals drifting through the air. My nauseous feeling continued. They sat me down to tell me about Nick. He was unconscious for now but stable. His right lung had been punctured and his right femur broken. He was going to surgery later sometime so they could put a rod in it. He had lots of bruises and cuts from the broken windshield. Turned out the Pontiac was totaled. They had to pull Ma out with the jaws of life. She never knew it hit her. Thank god. I was glad she'd just been to mass so at least she was probably feeling peaceful. I don't really know.

As if that wasn't enough, the cops flled me in that toxicology was pending because they think Nick may have possibly been drunk. Really? Drunk and in church? So that's how he's been putting up with everything. He just gets plastered and fnishes his chores. Way to go, Nick.

They asked me if I am up to seeing him. Am I up to seeing him? Am I? I stare across the hall and through the high windows of the room Nick is in. I can see the top of his head with its erratic, fre-colored hair. It was poking straight up. I couldn't see his ugly face, just some white thing framing it. A lot of wires and crazy machines surrounding his bed. I look at the nurse next to me. No. I'm really not up to seeing him. Sorry. I turned around and walked out.

I have no memory of how I got back to the apartment. When I got there, all I could do was stare at Ma's chair. She wouldn't be sitting there anymore. She wouldn't be using her afghan, walking into the kitchen to take her goddamn pills. She wouldn't be there. She was dead. And Nick killed her. He fucking killed my mom.

I started to cry. I turned into a 3-year-old bawling baby. I was holding my head, water falling on the foor. I think I was pulling my own hair out. How could he do this? What an irresponsible jackass. What about Nick anyway? Would he live? I hope not. I screamed into the empty space, "Die you fucking jackass. Die. Die." More bawling, more crying and shaking.

Siona showed up later after the initial crying session. She held me and patted my head. She told me she would help me through the process.

Just let it out. Let it out. We'll fgure it all out. Don't worry.

After about an hour passed, she got me to the point of addressing the immediate concern, which was the funeral home calling to set up arrangements for Ma. We went in there and talked to an old guy with a bad suit about how to package up the fnal remains of the person who gave birth to me. How do you want to package up that body? Do you want the top of the line casket with engraved fowers on the lid? The pink chiffon lining? The vault to keep out creepy crawlers while she lays in her tomb 6 feet under? The whole thing was so bizarre. One day you're talking to her, the next day you're putting her in a box.

I have to say Siona was the voice of reason in a lot of these decisions. We decided on a moderately priced casket, picked out the plot in the Catholic cemetery, and made arrangements with one of the priests for the actual funeral. I realized that I would be the only son there, as the oldest one would not be able to attend his own mother's funeral. Rightly so, since he killed her.

Father Joseph wanted to talk to me before the mass. So be it. I hadn't been to church for a decade. Let's get that out in the open for starters. What could he possibly say to me to make me think this was okay? I'm sure it would be just the right amount of sympathy mixed with some backhanded guilt. Isn't it nice that our oldest son had fnally brought her back to the fold? Hmm. Thank god one of us was meeting her spiritual needs. I would hate to see her living without god in her little apartment safe and sound.

I really needed to change my attitude before the funeral. Right now, I was angry at the entire world. Siona insisted I stay at her place. We would stay out of mass for now until I could face it and fgure out what to do with it.

Chapter 14. The funeral was okay. There weren't that many people considering Ma's isolation. A few people from the apartment building, some old coworkers that were still alive, and friends of Nick and me. Bob showed up acting all solemn and told me he was checking on Nick all the time and would watch over his apartment. Good, because I didn't want anything to do with that prick, even now. There was a short luncheon put on by the Rosary Society and then a short graveside service. I reluctantly threw a handful of dirt down on the light maple-colored lid. It hit with a muted thunking sound. I was really behind on schoolwork and sleep. I probably had about 4 hours a night since this all went down. I would get up in the middle of the night and walk around the old duplex while Siona slept. She looked like an angel, with her brown hair laying splayed out on the white pillowcase.

There was so much on my mind. We talked about cleaning out the apartment and me moving in here with Siona. It made sense, because we wanted to be together all the time anyway, and it would be impossible for me to afford the apartment on my own without Ma's social security check. I hoped I was making the right decision. I mean, I didn't want to push myself into her space. It just turned out that way. She seemed excited about it, but I wished it would have come about in a more natural way, so to speak. The next day marked 5 days after the accident. The nurse from the hospital called to tell me Nick was asking for me. Christ. I didn't even want to go in there. What should I say? "Thanks for killing our mother. Sorry you missed the funeral." It was not going to be good in any way. Siona offered to go with me, but I told her it needed to be just us two. We were going to have it out.

I tried to use the calming techniques I had learned in meditation. Just focus on your breathing, counting to 3 with each in-and out-breath. Focus on loving kindness. Remember, he almost died. He has to be hurting too. All of this was going well until I walked up the front stairs to the hospital. By the time I got into the ICU, it had pretty much worn off. I wanted to kill him again.

The TV was on as I entered his room, his crazy messed-up hair protruding above the hospital mattress and a plastic oxygen tube running into his nostrils. He really looked like shit. His skin was a sallow yellow, his face a record of 5-day-old trauma with black and purple bruising turning to a dark green color around the eyes and along the right jawline. He was propped up with pillows everywhere. His right leg looked like a huge tree limb from under the white bedspread. He had a tube on the right side running into a rectangular plastic box. Must be a chest tube.

He ficked off the TV with his remote, IV visibly taped to the back of his hand. "Hey, bro," he said in a weak voice that seemed strange emanating from this previously massive warrior. "Hey," I said. I guess I really fucked up, man. Can't believe it. Can't believe Ma's gone. With that, small rivulets of tears welled up in his bloodshot eyes and started to stream down his face.

I couldn't say anything. Finally I spit out. They took care of it. The mass was nice. She's at peace now. The plot is at the top of the hill at St. Mary's, fat stone near some trees. She's okay. He went on to tell me he felt so bad. He didn't mean to have 3 Jack and Cokes before he remembered he needed to take her to church. He went anyway. He can't remember what hit them. It was all so quick. What a nightmare. The cops are after me now. They're telling me it could be vehicular manslaughter. Involuntary manslaughter of Ma. No way. I shouldn't have to deal with this. It was a mistake. I was almost killed too. Why would I want to hurt Ma?

I can't believe this shit. I had to call a lawyer. When I get out of here, I'll have a year of legal crap. At least Monty down at the shop has gotten me some slack. I have some short-term disability I can use with a bunch of shit. Like it was all my fault.

Whose fault was it, Nick? I looked at him with a dead-on stare. Well, wait a minute. What do you mean? You think I meant to kill her? You think I meant to kill Ma? You son of a bitch. Nick looked furious. All of a sudden it hit me. He can look as mean and nasty as he wants, but he can't hurt me now. All of his bullying, all of his violence, it meant nothing at this moment. He was trapped in a hospital bed with tubes sticking out of him, and he couldn't hurt me.

Think about it, Nick. I turned around and left him sitting there, face twisted into a mixture of rainbows and roadkill. He can just sit there and stew on the fact that he did kill her.

I no longer gave two shits about Nick. All of his upcoming legal battles can be fought alone for all I care. His apartment can be taken care of by Bob or one of his other lackeys. I lost my mom, and it seemed I had also lost my brother.

Chapter 15. Time was creeping by so slowly. Life was a never-ending string of work and homework, housework, and sleepless nights. The only thing that made life bearable was Siona. She was always there to lift me up. She was very concerned about my mental health, which I have to say was struggling. I found myself staring out into open space quite a bit. Occasionally I would break up into tears for no apparent reason.

I took a lot of bike rides and found myself standing in front of Ma's grave. I wonder where dad ever ended up. We never knew. Did she hold secrets about dad that she never told us? The late fall sun fell onto the shiny new cemetery marker highlighting her birth and death. Mother: Olivia Anne Olsen. August 28, 1933 to September 7, 1998. I have fought the good fght. I have fnished the race. I have kept the faith. 2 Timothy 4:7. Yes, you did, Ma. You did keep the faith.

My head hung down while tiny droplets of water dripped onto the fresh budding blades of grass sprouting from the slightly raised gravesite. Just in time for winter. Too little, too late. I turned over the inverted metal vase and placed a few golden mums into it, adding some water I had in my water bottle. Would Nick ever visit this place? Would Nick be put in jail? Questions swirled around in my head, but I wasn't even that interested in the answers. It wasn't going to help the situation. It certainly wasn't going to help me at all. They say grieving is a process, and that going through it takes so long. From what I hear, it never really ends either. Fifty years can go by and you'll just break down all of a sudden. I hope she's fnally happy and fulflled. I hope she has no more work or worry. Leave that to me. I have plenty. Thinking of work prompted me to hop on my bike and pedal as fast as I could to the pizza parlor.

Things were busy and I was the head pizza maker. Tony was the owner and stopped in regularly to make sure things were running right. He had no family left around here. His wife had died about 5 years ago and his only son lived in downtown Chicago now. Apparently he was a bigwig at a fnancial investment place. All Tony had was the pizza joint.

Tommy was the delivery guy most of the time. He had a map in the car and was always trying to fgure out where he was going. It drove me crazy because most of our customers were steady customers we'd had for years. For example, this guy named Mike Jones called every Friday night about 6:00 p.m. like clockwork. He lived in an apartment building on Madison. He ordered a large half pepperoni, half mushrooms with black olives. No change in the order, ever. No change in the time, ever. This guy looked forward to his pizza at 6:45 on Friday so he could plop down on the couch and enjoy it over TV after a long week of work. Everybody in the place knew this. Tommy, however, acted like every Friday was a giant surprise. He had to recreate the wheel every week. He had to write it down. Mike Jones, half pepperoni, half mushroom and black olive, 435 Madison, apartment 210.

"Jesus, Tommy, it's Mr. Jones, 6:00 p.m., Friday night, half pepperoni, half mushroom, black olive, just like every other Friday since the day I set foot in this place. You do know how to get there, right?" I felt exasperated at having to give directions for the 250th time. How can this be a surprise to you? Really? My hands shot up in a quizzical movement like an Italian in the Godfather movies. "If you're so goddamn smart, you go deliver it," Tommy shouted contemptuously. "I will. And I can guarantee it will be much faster than you can." I looked at Tony, who just threw me his car keys. "Go on. Get out of here." He knew that my nerves had been frazzled the last few months after the car crash. I think at that moment he knew I needed to get out of the building.

I threw my old coat on, grabbed the pizza, and crawled reluctantly into the freezing interior of Tony's Chevy. The seats felt like it was about 20 degrees. Stupid pizza would probably be cold by the time I got there. I pulled up in front of Mr. Jones's apartment in under 10 and was back into the parlor in 20. Part of it was a desperate attempt to get warm again. I like standing next to the big pizza ovens. Delivery, not so great. Except for the $3 tip. That was okay.

Tommy was gone on another delivery when I got back. Tony came up to me, hit my shoulder, and said, "Man, that was quick. How would you like to do more deliveries for me?" I just thought, what the hell? At least it gave me more freedom and time by myself to think. "Sure, whatever you think," I said. Tony went on for a while about how he was sorry for my ma, how he worried about me sometimes, and how tired I looked. He wanted to help me through it somehow. I had become a substitute son for him, now that his son was so far away. In my mind, I fgured that was fne. I had no father, no mother, and no brother at this point. Siona was the love of my life, but she couldn't be a substitute parent. Sometimes you just need a parent. You just need a guide. Someone who could look at things objectively and let you know when you're getting off track a bit. I welcomed it for what it was worth.

When I got home, I was exhausted. I kissed Siona and told her I had to get some sleep. The essay I was working on for my history class on the implications that the Civil War had on us as an American society would have to wait. The accounting homework would have to wait. My brain was fried, my plate was full, and something had to give. I crawled into the blankets and moved around a bit to try and get warm. Hopefully she would crawl in beside me soon so the body heat would double up. I fell asleep immediately. I was back on the farm with Siona and her parents. The sun was shining with chickens and the dogs running around the yard. Her dad was happily blowing pot smoke up into the cloudless blue sky, laughing and singing some crazy song. Her mom came out and told me to deliver food to all of these neighbors that lived in the vicinity. She handed me piles of Tupperware containers, pies, casseroles covered in aluminum foil. I struggled to ft it into Siona's car.

I am driving along country roads, pulling up into people's driveways and setting food down. I quickly get to the next house and then the next. Suddenly Siona is next to me in the passenger seat. I look over and see that she is extremely pregnant. The obtrusively round beach ball stomach is almost pressed into the dashboard.

The next thing I remember is her holding the baby as if it had magically been born as I was delivering food. She sets it gently on the seat next to her. I look at the newborn and see a small pizza in place of its human face.

My eyes pop open and I am staring into the pitch black of the bedroom. I feel the body heat of her next to me. I must have moved quite a bit because she sleepily said, "What's the matter, babe?" "Oh my god, I had a dream we were at your parents' house and you had a baby. But in place of a face, it was a pizza. What the hell does that mean?"

I snickered and she started to laugh a bit. "Well, it means you work too much. It also means that you are giving birth to a new idea. Dreaming about being pregnant or having a baby means you are giving birth to new ideas. Are you having ideas about pizza?" She laughed and squeezed my arm. I think she drifted off to sleep before I came to the realization that maybe I was giving birth to a pizza idea. What if we could guarantee a fast delivery? What if we could get the pizza to someone in a half hour or they didn't have to pay? Like Domino's. Something like that. I thought I would have to talk this over with Tony tomorrow. He probably would think I had lost my mind. I fipped over on my left side and don't remember anymore until the alarm went off at 7:00.

Chapter 16. Fall was here and I was as busy as ever with school and work. Tony was giving me increasingly bigger responsibilities at the pizza parlor. I think he had his mind on retirement and I was a business student, so he fgured I could manage okay. This was a blessing in one way as far as an increase in pay. However, this further separated me from my only refuge in the world, Siona. The fall was particularly harsh, with below-normal temperatures and freakishly early snowstorms that required some shoveling and leaves falling off the trees before they should. I almost cringed when a pizza order for delivery came in because I knew I would have to get into that frigid car and deliver. It turned out that I was so much faster than Tommy was at delivering pizzas. I had grown up here. I knew every twist and turn, every street and alley like the back of my hand. He hadn't been here that long. I was ahead by default.

As I was standing there daydreaming and looking at the thin layer of snow on the sidewalk out of the window in walk Nick's friend Bob, I hadn't seen him since Ma's funeral, which seemed like a long time ago. "Oh my god, look who's shaking. Little brother. Man, what is up?" I just looked at him like he landed on a spaceship out in the back alley and accidentally wound up in a pizza joint. "Oh, hey, Bob. Nothing, man. What's what's been going on with you?" I looked as nonchalant as possible, knowing I hadn't spent one second trying to fnd out if Nick was even alive or dead. I hadn't called him, stopped by the apartment, nothing. I really didn't give a shit.

"Man, man, oh man. What the hell is going on with Nick? Have you talked to him? I mean, he barely survived, man. Now the cops are hounding the shit out of him. They might lock him up, man. Might lock him up. Can you believe that crap? Holy shit. You're in a goddamn accident and then they want to lock your ass up." He acted as animated as he usually did. His pupils looked about the size of the fying saucer he had just landed in. "What's he going to do?"

I just stared at him. I didn't know what to say because I didn't know what the situation was. "Um, I don't know, man. You know the rules. I mean, he accidentally killed one person," I said with as much sarcasm as I could muster up without screaming from the pent-up pressure inside. "Oh, dude, you don't mean to tell me you're okay with that. I mean, he's your brother, man. He's Nick, man. Nick would fucking kill somebody if they locked him up." He was scared of the scenario in his head.

"Oh, like he already did? Bob, I don't know what to tell you except I'm not okay. I'm not okay with Nick. I'm not okay with Ma being dead. I'm not okay with anything." My face must have been turning red from the boiling hatred in my soul. I wasn't exactly keeping a calm outer facade. Bob could see it. He was feeling the energy from me, like it was visibly taking shape as a separate entity.

He backed away slowly, held his hands up in the air, and declared, "I am so sorry, man. I am so sorry about your mother and Nick and all of it. I hope things get straightened out soon. I guess I'll just say that if you need anything, you'll know where to fnd me." He tried to put on a weak half-baked smile. "Yeah. Sorry, Bob. I am too. Thanks for stopping in. It's, it's not your fault, man." I realized it was inappropriate to kill the messenger, especially one that barely knew what day it was. Bob slowly turned, bobbed his head a bit, and opened the door to head out into the freezing air.

What to do now? I hadn't even realized that Nick was facing a possible prison sentence. Should I go see him? Should I ignore him? I found myself staring into the oven door, suddenly thrust into reality by the ringing of the telephone.

Later that night, I relayed the incident to Siona. "Oh, I remember that guy. What a complete clown. Well, at least you're up to date on the Nick saga." That's exactly what this whole thing is. A Nick saga. And I'm tired of being one of the characters in his stupid life play. I just want to drop out. "I get it, hon." She started to massage my neck, which felt awesome. She gave me a careful look with a slightly hopeful raised brow. "Someone once said not to trip over things behind you. Remember to breathe. Take time to heal. Remember this is your life. It's your play. You have control over your actions, thoughts, and words. Just give yourself time. You'll know what to do when you're supposed to do it. Don't think about Nick right now. I love you."

She leaned over and kissed the side of my face. Her skin smelled of roses and the chocolate cookies she baked while I was at work. What would I do without her? What hope would there be for me without Siona?

Part 3, chapter 1.

That little bitch. It's all that little bitch's fault. She really is the reason this is all going down like this. I had lots, and lots of time to think while I laid there in that stupid hole they call a hospital. The fucking doctors and nurses are so high and mighty. I don't think one of them knows they're asked from a hole in the ground.

First one guy comes in and says something about my lungs, then the next guy comes in and says something about my leg. One of them orders drugs for this or that, then the other one orders stuff that doesn't go with the frst guy's stuff. What a bunch of quacks. They all should get their licenses taken away. The nurses are either too shy to do anything, or they are such nasty bitches you just want to strangle them. I was so glad to get out of there.

Problem is, as soon as I got out, the cops started harassing me about the accident. They said my alcohol level was too high. I was drunk driving. They said I should have known not to get behind the wheel, and my ma was the victim. What about me? I mean, I know she's dead, but what about my pain and suffering? Like it means nothing at all. Nothing.

Turns out Bob is the only friend who's a real friend. He came over to the apartment and took care of shit. He talked to my landlord, made sure my bills got paid. Of course I had to arrange some stuff with the bank so he could handle my money, but no big deal. He owes me anyway. He's such a schmuck. Half the time he shows up at my place hoping I have weed, and the other half he's already stoned and wants me to go to some dive and fnd him a chick. Huh. He defnitely ain't going to fnd one on his own. Not with that face. I'm just sitting here waiting for this stupid lawyer, the one I found in the phone book, to show up. It said he was the top guy for keeping people out of jail after a DUI. That's great, but what about the manslaughter charges? Was I going to have to get another guy for that? Now that my car's totaled, I have to take the bus everywhere. City bus. What a joke. Everyone on there is a total loser. Old bag ladies, crippled people with their walkers, and stupid kids with green and blue hair, rings hanging out of their noses, pants hanging down to their knees. What the fuck. Do people know they can't run in those? What if somebody, like me, started chasing their sari asses? They wouldn't get too far, would they? Oh, hold on a second while I pull my fucking pants up so I can run away. Douchebags.

Things were going great for a long time. My brother could stay with my ma, go to work a little bit. I could help them out here and there. That was it. End of story. It shouldn't be that hard to watch after an old lady. I mean, hell, she wasn't really that old. But all those years trying to take care of us did a number on her. She was always tired and kind of run down. Her job at the school system sucked. I was so glad when she fnally retired. I did want something good for ma. That's why I tried to keep him there, so she would have someone around. She was getting so forgetful for that last year or so. I'm not sure why all that was happening. I wish she could have had a grandchild, except I have no reason for a kid. And he defnitely doesn't have a reason for one.

He isn't dumb, he's just simple. But not anymore. Oh no, not now. Not now that Mr. High and Mighty is in school. Learning this and that. Who the fuck cares? Who cares about old books and science and music and all that shit? There's real work to do out here. He just needs to get off his ass and do it. He's too old to be a doctor or a lawyer. He's also too dumb. It would take forever for him to learn all that shit. I make the big money. I have control over this family. Can't he understand that? If he would have just settled down and kept up with ma, none of this would have happened.

What happened all through school? I covered his ass, that's what. He was constantly being sent home for being a clown. I don't think one year went by with him not getting into trouble and ma having a nervous breakdown about him. I just wanted to protect her. That's all. One day back in junior high school, he was just a newbie and was terrifed. This kid was being, or trying to be, a bully. This kid was doing stupid shit like taking his books, tripping him in the hallway, stuff like that. I saw bro eating lunch in the corner of the cafeteria. I risked my reputation to go over to the little shit and ask what the fuck was wrong with him. Was he actually going to cry? Not in front of my friends, man. No way. I wasn't putting up with that at school. He had to learn to suck it up.

Dude, what is going on? He looked up with those big, goofy eyes and said, "John Johansson tried to trip me in the hallway. He stole my hat and now I think the $2 ma gave me is gone. I can't fnd it. He probably stole that too." His eyes were getting all watery. "Okay," I said, "I'll see what I can do. But I'm just telling you to stop that blubbering. You're embarrassing the shit out of me." "Okay, Nick. Okay." I turned around and went over to my friend's table. "Which one of the seventh graders is John Johansson?" Right away, Stevie Sunderman said, "That kid over there." He pointed over a few tables. "The one with the curly blonde hair," I asked. "Yeah, that's him."

Watch this. I started walking toward these tiny guys. They looked like they were going to piss their pants. "Are you John Johansson?" I said. I looked right at him like I was going to rip his head off. He almost couldn't talk. "Um, yes." His face was the color of chalk. I have to laugh right now at that. It was so funny, but almost funnier now.

"Come over here. I need to talk to you." He stood up. He had on those stupid black jeans and a fannel shirt. I'll never forget it to this day. He followed me out to the doorway of the cafeteria. I pointed to the goalpost set up for a football practice. "See that pole down there?" "Yeah." "Do you want me to hang you upside down from the top of it so you can't get down?"

"No. What do you mean? I didn't do anything. I swear." He was sweating now. "If you so much as talk to my brother, trip him or steal any of his shit from now on, you're going to hang upside down from that pole until you pass out and die. You understand me?" I said it so scary that I thought he would need new underwear. It was fucking priceless.

"Okay, okay. I swear I didn't do anything. I won't talk to him. Jeez." "Don't jeez me, you little asshole. Get back over there with your pussy friends and eat your stolen lunch, little fuck." He went running over there like a gorilla was chasing him. He was so funny. God. I crapped myself up.

I have to say, it wasn't the only time I had to pull my brother out of some problem. He was always totally dependent on me. He still is, if you ask me. He would be lost without me. That, I am certain of. Chapter 2.

Now that I think about it, things weren't always so bad between us. We had our moments of fun, I guess. We used to play a lot together when we were little. Making shit up, baseball in the alley, running around the neighborhood. We went trick-or-treating together, and Christmas usually turned out okay even though Dad wasn't around.

I tried to make ma feel okay about not being able to buy us much. She really couldn't afford it on her measly salary. Poor ma. All she had for family was her sister and us. But Aunt Mary was so far away in New Jersey, all they did was talk on the phone once in a while.

We went out there once, before Dad left. It was pretty cool. We went to the beach, the only time I ever got there. Went to the boardwalk, rode on some rides, and ate cotton candy. That was probably one of the best days of my life. Especially now. Especially because of this.

I lit my marlboro despite the no smoking sign in the hallway. Screw that shit. Did they even have a clue what people were going through here? I mean, for Christ's sake. Everyone that comes in here is probably scared to death or going to jail or can't drive for a year. The least they can do is let us smoke. I blow the smoke into the air right above my head. That's more like it. A tiny relief.

School went pretty good for me. I always had those teachers wrapped around my fnger. Once they heard of my reputation as a leader, a guy who wouldn't take crap from other people, they usually fell into line. Homework was a breeze because I had someone in the class do it for me. There were lots of girls lining up to go out with me. So once I mentioned I needed to do my homework and I could use some tutoring, well, you get the picture.

I was a football star in high school, as most people can tell you. I was a wide receiver. It was fantastic smearing other guys' helmets into the grass, going out for passes, making touchdowns. Everyone thought I was the shit back then. The main thing was to keep total control at home. Keep him there with ma so I could have some breathing room.

I needed to make the cash, as well as get some pussy now and then. God knows he was never going to get any. Until now, that is. Once they both understood how it worked, things ran like a well-oiled machine. Nick is the boss. He takes care of you. You do the stupid stuff and don't bother me. He had one fucking job: take care of ma. But no, he just didn't do that in the end.

When was this goddamn lawyer going to be ready? God, this is excruciating to wait here like this. I picked up a magazine off the table in front of me but couldn't bring myself to open it. Who cares? That's the question. Who cares about me? What's going to happen? The expense? I felt like I wanted to puke. It would be nice to have a girlfriend right about now. Someone to take care of crap at the apartment and maybe help me out with some cash. Too bad it didn't work out between me and Leslie. She was super hot and the sex was great, but she got a little bit too needy for my taste. She also had a problem with spending all her money and not making enough to cover her shopping.

She was a secretary for a dentist down on 8th Street. I met her after I had to go in and get a crown put in. She liked me right away and since she was good-looking, I asked her out. She met ma, cooked food once in a while, and was pretty good too. And had a good personality to go with ma's. She would look up at me with those big brown eyes and ask me for favors. I usually gave in.

Sometimes, though, I had to tell her to shut it. The stuff she thought she needed was so stupid. Fancy purses, high-heeled shoes, enough for about 20 girls, makeup, the latest clothes. On and on and on. She didn't need me. She needed a fucking prince or something. Who has the cash for all that bullshit? Well, I decided I wasn't going to be the one to get suckered into that my whole life. Can't believe what a douchedeck guy he is that's with her now. He looks like he's dumb enough to get suckered into her cashsucking plan. Good luck with that one, asshole. The door to the ofce fnally starts to open. A secretary with an old-fashioned beehive hairdo comes out into the hallway to get me. "Mr. Olson, come this way." She's walking so slow and it's pissing me off. She takes me into a small ofce with a desk that has a bunch of papers piled all over it, a computer, and a sign that says, "Mark Jowlish, Attorney at Law."

He fnally comes in and sits across from me. His hair looked like someone put grease in it. I started to get depressed seeing how shabby his suit was. Apparently this guy didn't make a lot of money. "Hello, Mr. Olson. Mark Jowlish." He holds out his hands and we make nice-to-get-and-to-know-each-other. He tells me about the current situation with drunk driving laws and gets me to go over the whole story in my words.

I do, but somehow it makes it seem like it was all my fault. What I want to say is that I really didn't have a choice. Ma needed to get out and go to church. It was up to me to get her there because of my dumbass brother. I can't fnd the right words because nobody knows the whole situation. That's the problem here. It's too hard to explain the situation. Unless you really know somebody, you can't judge them. And you can't know them if you don't have a history together. Something like that. I can't explain it. He just gives me this disappointing stare. I have a bad feeling this isn't going to be easy. He talked about charges that were pending against me. He told me that for now, my license is revoked. I couldn't drive. We would have to see what came up after all the cards were laid, but he didn't think he'd be able to represent me. I needed a different kind of lawyer.

What the hell is going on? I can't believe all of this. I can't work. My leg isn't right yet. I can't drive. Hell, he told me not to drink either because they might randomly show up to do tests on my blood alcohol level? This is completely crazy. I have money saved up in the bank, but this is going to bleed me dry before it's all said and done.

Chapter 3. I'm going crazy in here. I just am laying around all day trying to get some answers about all this shit that's going on. I did manage to fnd a lawyer that can help me with my so-called involuntary manslaughter. What a complete joke.

I showed up at court with this guy. His name is Daniel Dawson. He's pretty smart. He wears a nice suit and his shoes are always shined up. His hair is still blond, but I bet he's going on 60 years old. He seems like he has a lot of experience, so I guess I won't fnd anybody else that's any better at this point. He told me that if they charged me with vehicular manslaughter and because I was drunk, I could be looking at up to 10 years in prison. If they keep it a misdemeanor, I still might be in jail for a year. That's no good. What am I supposed to do when I get out? Run back to work and beg for them to hire me again? Hopefully they know me well enough because I've been a great worker for a long time and never had a problem over there.

I dressed up in my nicest clothes. I had a pretty good-looking suit, black with pinstripes. My shoes could have used some help, but hey, I'm just glad I can walk right now. My palms were sweaty and all I could think about was jail. Things could get a little rough.

I don't think I've eaten right since the accident. First it was the hospital food that was absolutely crap, and then it was what I could scrape up at home. Bob brought over a pizza once, but I could hardly eat it. Mostly I just drink chocolate milk. It settles my stomach, but I'd much rather have a Jack and Coke. Right now it feels like my stomach is eating itself. I probably have an ulcer right now. I don't know. If things don't go right, it might be jail food. I've got to get back into the gym and start eating before I start looking like my brother, skinny geek.

We have to sit here and wait for a bunch of other people to get in front of the judge and hear what's happening with their stuff frst. Drug dealers, carjackers, just a bunch of stupid punks. I'm sure they'll be moved into jail or some detention centers or something. No matter what you do, you can't get away from these kinds of scumballs. My ma taught us right. We learned to stand up to other people and respect other people's stuff at least.

The way I see it is there are three kinds of people: leaders like me, dipshits like these morons clogging up the jail system, and invisible people like my brother. You know the type. People who you never notice going to school or work or driving around. Just nobodies, really. The nobodies can be smart or dumb, but in the end, nobody notices them because they don't change anything in the world. Only leaders do that. The current dipshit just got six months of probation and community service for being underage with alcohol and stealing beer out of his neighbor's garage. What a fucking moron.

It was fnally my turn. The judge was a fat lady with brown hair and big glasses. She looked like she had been locked up in a library as torture. Maybe they forced her to read all the books in the lawyer section. She went over the accident and brought up my blood alcohol level, which was higher than it was supposed to be, although I would never have guessed that because I sure didn't feel drunk at the time. There was a lot of talking between my fast talker Danny Dawson and the library judge. All I had to do was state my name, say yes or no to stuff like, "Were you in the car with your mother?" crap like that. Seems like more wasted time in bullshit. At the end of what seems like two hours, they decide I will be charged with involuntary manslaughter because I was drunk, and a jury would decide whether I would go packing for jail or not. If she just could have heard my side of the story from me, I think things could be just fne. If ma was here right now, she would probably cry crocodile tears. Poor ma.

We step inside a small room next to the courtroom and Danny spells it all out for me. A court date will be appointed and a jury will be here. I will have to sit here and be judged by a bunch of moronic strangers who will decide where I'm going to live and if I'm going to have a job or not. Unbelievable. I'm so depressed. I can barely remember all the shit he said to me.

I'm walking home in the cloudy, rainy, cold day back to my apartment. I guess I better get crap straightened up around here. I'll have to call the landlady and fgure out what to do. Maybe Bob can keep my stuff if I have to go. What the fuck can I do without my stupid brother? Isn't that rich? All those years working my ass off, running over to check on stupid and ma, and now this. No help whatsoever. What an asshole. Him and his smarty-pants girlfriend. She was the problem. If she hadn't stepped into the picture, everything would have been okay.

I am getting so pissed right now. I'm smoking one after the other. I want to drink so fucking bad. All this pacing back and forth isn't helping anything. I need to fx the root of the problem. Her. I don't care if it kills me. She's going to get a piece of my mind.

Chapter 4. Bus route number 10 goes to the corner of Smith and 5th, and I know this is just a few blocks from shithead's house. Or should I say her house? What the fuck was her name? Shannon? Sarona? Sana? Something like that. It had to be a hippie made-up thing, I'm sure. Her parents were probably wearing sandals in the snow right now or smoking pot on a mountaintop somewhere. She seemed like that type. She was not too bad-looking, but something screams hippie about her. It's probably the way she's so goddamn sure about herself. Like she never needs a man for the rest of her life. Somehow she got her hooks into my brother. She'll probably nag the shit out of him until the day she dies. He should do himself a favor and jump off the nearest cliff right now to spare himself that torture. The bus stop is freezing and a bunch of losers are standing around with their hands shoved in their pockets, bringing them out to blow into them every few seconds. Why are street people so freaking cold and skinny? I guess all they eat is handouts. Probably don't get any protein. I'm trying to stay as far away from them as possible so I don't get any disease or anything. Gross.

You can't give him money because he'll just buy drugs or beer. It's not like they're going to save up and buy a steak at Tony's. It's about freaking time this bus pulls up. The driver looks like he's about 100 with a dirty, wrinkled face. I move into the back, past all the handicappers and bag ladies, past the gangsters with fling pants and backwards ball caps. What a bunch of punks.

I have to think about what I'm going to say to her when I get there. "Look, bitch. You caused all my problems. You owe me about 10 grand and some time in prison." Or, "You ruined all of our lives and now you're going to pay." Pay with what? She probably doesn't have a spare dime, but her parents might. I think she just needs a little motivation to help out. What is she going to do? Tell my loser brother? Fat chance he would ever say anything to me. Because if he did, I'd beat the living shit out of him. The sidewalk feels like it's going to crack. The leaves are gone and it's freezing walking down the street from the bus stop. Everything is covered in a gray color. The sky, the ground, even the leaves that are laying dead in the crispy grass. I hate these kinds of days because you know you're never going to see the sun for a long, long time.

I do remember walking with my dad on a day like this. He left when I was 8, but I do remember him a little bit. I was going home to the apartment and he stopped at school to wait for me to come out. He grabbed onto my hand like it was some kind of vice. He was kind of pulling me along. I remember my feet couldn't keep up with his. He was a big guy with dark red hair and a fat nose, like the kind alcoholics get after a while.

He was wearing a blue polyester puffy coat and black stocking cap. He was pissed, but I didn't know why. He was always pissed. Hell, we had to walk around on eggshells all the time because you never knew when he was going to explode. Ma usually got the brunt of it, even though she didn't deserve it. None of us deserved it, but especially her. He was pretty much a jerk, but he was respected by his friends and the other guys at the brewery. Yeah, that's why he always smelled like beer. Or maybe he was just drunk most of the time. You never knew for sure.

I think I was in second grade, but it's hard to remember that because nothing important happens when you're in second grade. Just a snot-nosed kid trying to make it until summer so you can play outside and not have to go to school. Even so, kids do need to learn their place, so I don't blame him for the occasional smack. That day was different though. He was really pissed.

I remember him saying, "You think you can talk to your brother that way? You kiss your mother with that flthy mouth?" I honestly didn't know what he was talking about. He stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and looked down at me with those bloodshot eyes. He had spit fying out of his mouth. "What did you say to your brother?" "I don't know, Dad. I swear I didn't mean it." I was shaking in my boots. "How can you swear you don't mean it when you can't remember what the hell you said?" "I don't know, Dad." I could feel myself starting to cry, but I didn't want to cry. That would make him madder. I blinked over and over, but some of the water was coming out and starting to freeze on my face. I was such a little idiot. What had I said? Then I remembered that I had called my brother a motherfucker. I think I just picked that up from Jimmy Wasserman. He was always cussing and it was cool to the rest of us. My stupid shit brother must have gone crying to ma and then she told dad. I suddenly felt like it was the end of my life. I knew I was in for a beating of some kind. He continued to pull me down the street with the force of a Mack truck pulling a trailer, my rubber boots skimming the cement. He was squeezing my hand off and it was really starting to hurt. We got to the apartment and he forced me up the stairway with a blunt push on my back. I was trying to get some distance between us, so I ran up the steps as fast as I could. Ma wasn't home yet. She was my only hope for survival.

"Get in your room and get your coat off. It's time for a little lesson," he said in that low growl. I was in for it, so I said I had to pee frst, but he wouldn't let me go to the bathroom. I was hoping to stick some toilet paper into my underwear for padding, but no chance of that. I put my coat on the kitchen chair and skulked into my bedroom.

Here he comes. He unbuckled his belt and pulled it tight between his hands, making a little snapping sound. "Lean over." I was trying not to cry and turned around. Before I could get ready, he started beating my ass with the belt. I remember it hurt so bad, but after about the fourth swing, I couldn't tell one apart from the other. I think he did it about 10 times.

"Hope you can't sip for a week, you little shit. Start treating people with a little respect. Or better yet, keep your trap shut." He slammed the door. I tried to see what my butt looked like in the little mirror hanging over a small dresser across from my bed. All I could make out was a huge pile of red welts. It was going to take some time for that to go away. I probably didn't sit for at least two days when Monday rolled around and I had to go back to school. I laid on my bed and cried myself to sleep that night. "Well, what comes around goes around," someone once said. It was coming around all right. I fnally reached the driveway of the shitty duplex they live in. The car is in the drive, so I fgured someone's home. His bike wasn't outside though, so I thought it would be safe to have a little talk with fancy pants. I stepped up to the front door.

There's a bunch of pots with dead plants from summer left in them. I knock on the door with as much force as I could muster in the cold. I can see a light on in the back of the house. Guessing that's the kitchen. I could hear some shufing footsteps and then she opens the door with a little crack. "Nick? Is that you? Oh my gosh. I never would have expected you here."

She opened the door. "Yeah, it's me. Can I talk to you?" I said, stepping onto the wooden foor of the living room. A gray cat was sulking around the hallway to the kitchen. She smiled weakly and turned on the lamp. "Defnitely. Have a seat." She looked at the ratty-fowered couch next to the front door. "No, that won't be necessary. I'm guessing you're alone." "Um, yeah. Is that what you wanted? Or did you want to talk to your brother?" She was starting to look a little worried at this point. "Nope. I want to talk to you. I don't suppose you have any idea what the fuck I've been going through lately, do you?" "Look, Nick, whatever is on your mind, I'm sure we can work through it. Why don't you have a seat and we can talk? Would you like some coffee?" She looks at me with those watery blue eyes like she was looking at a stray dog or something. "Hippie chick." "No, I don't want some fucking coffee. I don't know if you have any idea what is going on, but I can tell you something. You're the reason I'm probably going to jail. You know that?"

I was starting to get really pissed. She calmly held onto the dish rag in her hand and sat on the edge of an old, brown, lazy boy chair. Holding her hand out to me, she said, "Let's talk about this rationally. What makes you think I'm responsible for you going to jail?" She tossed her brown bangs to the side of her face and around her ear. She had on some weird jewelry and bracelets around her arms. She was wearing those stupid hippie sandals and loose clothes. Not exactly a turn on.

The more I looked at her, the more I wanted to strangle that little bitch. I felt like Paul Bunyan next to her. She's so small and I'm hovering over, about to come down with a massive force. She's so cool and collected, it makes me want to puke. I can smell some crazy concoction cooking in the back of the house. Something like green vegetables and beans. The smell of that is mixing with a fower candle in the living room and making me confused. It isn't something I would eat, I'm guessing.

I inched up closer to look down on top of her brown head. "If it wasn't for you messing around with my brother, everything would be cool. He would be taking care of ma. She would be alive right now and I would be working. Things would be perfect, but you came along and confused his stupid brain with a bunch of crazy ideas about school and other shit. Who knows what you've been telling him? You know he's a follower. He would jump off a bridge if you asked him to. He's just a stupid kid. If it wasn't for you, we'd all be just fne right now. Just fne."

I must have spit a little with the last word because she's wiping something off her face. She gets up slowly and tries to get past me, but I'm not letting her. "Fuck her. She can just stand here and take it. She has no right interfering with our lives." "How about paying for my hospital and lawyer bills? You want to do that? You got 20 grand? How about serving time in jail for the stupid accident? This is all your fault. You got two things to do right now. You come up with some money, maybe from your freaky hippie parents or somewhere, and you get the fuck away from my brother. Stay out of his life."

My voice was getting louder and louder. I wasn't cold anymore. As a matter of fact, I could have stripped down to my t-shirt and lifted a car right now. It felt so great to get in her face. I was scaring the shit out of her. I know I was. "Nick, calm down. This really has nothing to do with me. If you'll just listen for a second." I cut her off and walked her into the wall leading to the hallway. She's trying to keep a distance from me, but I just get closer and closer. Now I'm pushing her up on the wall. She pushes me back with her hand, but she's too small. "Oh no, too small for Nick." "Too bad bitch." "What are you doing, Nick? Let's talk this out. I want to hear your side of the story."

I grabbed her neck with my left hand. She's frantically trying to get my hand off her neck but can't. She's making squeaking noises like a dying animal. Her brown hair is clinging to the wall behind her, making crazy patterns like the silly string we used to play with as kids. I reach into my coat pocket with my right hand and feel the cool, shiny edge of the switchblade. Good old Swiss Army knife. I bring it out slowly so she can watch me fick it open in front of her face. Her eyes light up and get really big. More squeaking sounds. "Now you're listening, aren't you? This is so you can remember how serious I am. I am serious as a heart attack, you little whore. No more brother. No more contact. You got that?" She nodded the best she could with my hand on her neck. I'm sure there was going to be some bruising. I placed the edge of the knife in between her skinny collarbone and boob. "If I wanted to kill you, I could kill you right now." Her eyes ficked open and closed. "She looks like a little bird." "Break it off with him tonight or else. Then you're going to get your hands on some cash and get ready to hand it over. I'll be back in one week and I better see some fucking cash or this blade goes into your little neck. If you so much as leak one word to the cops or anyone else, remember that I have lots of friends. Lots of friends who aren't as nice as me. They don't give a shit if you're alive or dead. They also don't give a shit if your parents are alive or dead. I am very sure it would take me about fve minutes to track them down. So don't give me a reason to. Do we understand each other?" She blinked and tried to nod. Her face is getting pretty white now.

There's a sudden thunk of the front door hitting the wall. "Holy shit, Nick, what the fuck are you doing?" It was my brother. I don't even have time to turn around and he's trying to grab my arm. I'm struggling away from him. "Shit." The knife hits her hard and there is red fying out. She's making weird noises. I push my right elbow back into his head.

"That little shit is how cold." "I got to get out of here." I wipe the blade off on her shirt as she is sinking toward the foor. I walk as fast as I can to the bus stop. I have to use my left hand to pay the fare because my right hand is pushed into my pocket with blood sticking to it. It's getting cold and thick. I'm glad it's completely dark now. Time to go home.

Part 4, Chapter 1 The ferry is moving across the gray glass surface of the water. It is familiar, and I take my place on the second foor after walking up the metal stairs with small holes punctured into them and cold, round handrails used to steady yourself from the sway of the boat. On this foor, people stand in line for a warm cup of coffee or browse the glass cases for a quick breakfast before beginning a long day of work. I have a coffee and a burrito wrapped in shiny silver foil. The heat of it radiates into my palm, and I feel satisfed knowing it will soon warm my empty stomach.

Now the coffee is gone. I am holding the hand of a small boy on the left. He is about two years old. As we walk across the foor of the boat, the center is suddenly opened, forming a square with a banister all the way around. You can see the bottom level through this opening, exposing the hard wooden foor below. The child is violently thrust over the banister. I jump with fear and throw my left hand over the side of the banister just in time to grab a small, plump segment of his right ankle with my frst fnger and thumb. There is no noise from the boy. He hangs limply upside down. The shock of it has silenced him. Time slows, and I am terrifed by the realization that if I would let go, he would fall to his death on the wooden foor far below us.

The banister is cutting into my waist, my weight precariously teetering on either side. For some reason, I am unable to use my right hand to help the child, perhaps for fear of unwaiting us and ending the scene with the loss of two lives instead of just one. But as this thought races through my mind quickly, I am also aware of the fact that the boy is me. I am my only savior. I must move very slowly. My fnger and thumb slide painfully, millimeter by millimeter, to work my hand around the limb without changing the pressure, without letting go. Can I pull him up without falling myself? With a jolt, I am awake. Sweat is beating on my forehead.

The sidewalks were slick with snot and piss before the rains came. Rains being a misnomer. There was a constant mist, really, coming from all directions. The people living here gave up on umbrellas long ago. They prefer wearing hoods. It eliminates extra items while walking on the wet sidewalks. The geographical size of Seattle is relatively small, which lends itself to walking through many neighborhoods in a short period of time if you have the stamina.

The sky is a thick gray blanket that covers the people for most months of the year. Blankets can suffocate, but also provide protection for those of us with exposed skin. There is a Seattle freeze, the well-known term for the people here that surround themselves with an invisible yet palpable protective bubble, not wanting to take on a stranger's emotional baggage. They all have baggage, and being busy people want to barricade any invading emotions that might make their own lives heavier. I am now one of them, a Seattleite.

Most of the time, the temperature has minimal fuctuation. The difference of only 40 degrees can separate the coldest day in winter from the warmest day in summer. It would be rare to have snow or see temps over 90, but when you do, there is visible disgust painted on the faces of the people. This is not what they signed up for. If you want to be hot, move to California. If you want to be cold, move to Canada. I have now adjusted to this minimalist approach to weather. I would not survive a Wisconsin winter again or be able to walk the streets with sweat rolling down my face from the August humidity. It seems that life belongs to someone else, long ago, to whom I barely know. The events that took place remind me of a movie I might watch for entertainment, suspense, or drama that can be turned off when it gets to be too much. In many ways, I was two people: the child in Wisconsin and now the man in Washington. It was the third week in October, so the rain would come soon, usually by Halloween. The street people that slept on ragged slumber bags and doorways seemed to gradually disappear, as if the water washed them away. Where did they go? There were missions and lots of city programs to help the growing number of homeless, but where they actually go is a mystery. Come March and April, they will be back sleeping, shufing up and down the city streets with a few random items, loose pants hanging around their hips. Were the pants too large from some larger donor, or have they lost so much weight from the drug and alcohol addiction that they could not keep them up? I probably will never know this either. Like most other people living here, I keep to myself and mingle with a small group of friends from the ofce and people I've met in the apartment building. I try not to get involved with the bigger picture of income disparity that grew on a daily basis. This bothered my conscience sometimes, but I had more than enough things to ruminate on. Bigger fshes to fry.

Many years had passed since my Milwaukee days. Years of pain and growth, years of regret and loss. Thanks to my old boss, Tony, I had done pretty well for myself in the pizza business. I now had my own chain of pizzerias here in the Northwest. Of course, I used his name in honor. Tony's Boy's Pizza. It sounded appropriately Italian, even though I wasn't.

The frst store is right near my apartment in Belltown. It's tucked under a large medical ofce building next to a movie theater. Yes, we still deliver, but now we use GPS instead of folding paper maps like back in the day. This is becoming a town of technology, with people focking here from all over the globe to work at Microsoft, Apple, and a place called Amazon.

The faces are changing as I walk down the street. I can hear Chinese, Arabic, and European languages. It seems normal to me now, but not so long ago I would have been a little freaked out hearing this in the Midwest. There are a lot of dogs. People love their dogs, but not a lot of children, I've noticed. It's best to keep the kids out in the suburbs in case someone crazy is walking around.

Mental health is a defnite problem here. I don't know if it's because homelessness lends itself to drug addiction and then slides insidiously into crazy, or if it has to do with the big gray blanket. The blanket keeps a lid on things, whereas sunshine promotes feelings of wellness. Once you get used to the blanket, though, it feels so safe. It's that go home and eat chili, watch the game, feeling you get in the foul. People stop noticing they haven't seen the sun for a while. When it does come out, it's as if some anomaly just occurred that you can't stop looking at with a feeling of wonder mixed with fear. I walk along, staring straight ahead, occasionally noticing a person on the side doing something unusual. There's a guy on this corner who plays an electric keyboard, unless it's raining. Judging by the bills inside his open black bag, he has a few admirers. His music is a step back in time to the late '70s, disco and some instrumental jazz mix-up. Today he has a gray felt hat with ear faps and mittens with open-ended fngers.

It's getting colder as I walk, but I need to grab lunch before a meeting at 1 o'clock with a guy from the meat company that supplies us different toppings: pepperoni, sausage, ham, the usual. I head for Lowell's because it's one of my favorite restaurants right in the middle of Pike's Place Market. There are three levels to sit on, with views over the Puget Sound. I could use a huge plate of blueberry French toast with a side of hash browns and some sausage. Thank God I walk a lot here, or I would weigh 200 pounds by now.

The tourists are thick today, with food in their hands as they stroll along the brick street, gawking at the stalls with fowers, knickknacks, and fresh seafood. You can get any fruit, veggie, meat, or drink in just a couple blocks, year-round. A line a mile long has formed outside the original Starbucks. It's small in there, and you can go to a half a dozen other ones in a few blocks, but they stand there and wait anyway. Little do they know that the original store was open north of here but was moved into this location at a later date. This was one of the frst ones, though.

I'm walking slowly due to the pace of the gawkers in front of me, and out of the corner of my eye I see the back of a girl with dark brown fowing hair to the middle of her back. I instantly fash back to Siona. I take a deep breath and keep trudging toward Lowell's. God, I miss her. I miss her smile, her smell, and her kiss, among many other things.

I haven't really dated since Siona left my life, although I do talk to a woman that's a barista in a coffee shop near the ofce. She's interesting, and she has a nice smile. I should ask her out, but somehow I just can't get my nerve up. I think she would go too. She just gives me that vibe.

How many years has it been now? I guess it's been seven? Yeah, that would be right. Seven years since my life suddenly stopped being what it was and became what it is now. Seven years of change, seven years of loneliness, and seven years of hatred for my brother.

Chapter 2 I'm seated at a table on the second foor next to the windows. There are the mountains in the distance, the tops of which can't be seen due to the low gray clouds sitting on the horizon like a piece of insulation foam. A huge cruise ship has docked a little to the north as the ferry scoots west on one of its neverending back-and-forth trips to Bainbridge Island. I ask for another coffee, the third cup of the day. We live on caffeine here. They say there are detectable rates of caffeine in the water of the Sound. I'm not sure I believe that one.

Caffeine seems to take the place of sunshine, a boost of energy to replace the last vitamin D. Just a splash of half and half will do. I can't stand the endless variety of favors, types of milk, and temperature variations that some people insist upon at the coffee counters. A Midwest boy at heart, I settle for the simple stuff. Siona was like that. Simple, but in a great way. She was so transparent. You knew what you were going to get. It wasn't as if she would try to promote any kind of falsity. She wore what she wanted, ate what she wanted, and said what she wanted. There she was, open to the world. You have to love that about a woman.

She just hadn't decided what to do until about a year after the stabbing. I was so relieved in the beginning because I believed she had been saved. She had been spared her life, and we could go on. But apparently, that's not what ended up happening. Sometimes wounds are felt more deeply on the inside. The outer fesh will eventually heal, sometimes leaving a scar. The inner wounds can linger on for the rest of our lives, even in someone who is equipped to deal with adversity as well as she was. No amount of meditation or yoga or therapy can heal the deepest injuries.

My wounds are there too, and they are being stubborn, like a persistent fy that won't leave you alone at the picnic table. You think it's gone and look down and see it sitting on the edge of your slice of watermelon. It's the nagging feeling that you should have played it differently, that you had so many other options but chose the wrong one. I wish I could fnd a huge fy swatter and smash that fucking thing to smithereens.

I found myself suddenly awake again, back up against the wall, trying to support her body weight as I slowly lowered her down to the foor. My mind was a blur as I ran to the phone to dial 911. Her face was going so pale, moment by moment the life being sucked out of her onto the wood foor of the hallway. I tried to fnd the point of bleeding to stop it with my hand. I ended up frantically ripping the old fannel shirt off her, leaving the brown camisole that was getting wetter and wetter with the outfowing blood. Oh God, where is it? I saw a fuid central area very close to her left shoulder, so I smashed it as hard as I could with both hands stacked on top of each other. It seemed to be slowing down a little bit. I could hear the sirens in the distance getting closer. Hurry up. Hurry up. I was talking to myself. She could no longer respond to me. Her breathing was so shallow. I could feel the tears welling up, but tried to remain calm. In my mind, I played out the scene again, so I could regurgitate it to the paramedics when they arrived. There were two of them now, stomping through the front door with a box and a defbrillator. They gently pushed me aside as they took over. The frst guy systematically checked her pulse and breathing. Next, they were hooking up the monitors and poking her with a needle. The third guy came along talking to someone on the walkie-talkie. "What happened?" he asked me. I looked at him, stunned. Blood covering the front of my shirt, hands, pants, everything. My brother stabbed her. He stabbed her. Oh God, will she die? I was trying to control my breathing. Then a cop came over and made me walk away into the front room. He was talking in a supportive way, but I couldn't comprehend a thing he was saying. "Mr. Olson, you say your brother stabbed your girlfriend?" "Her name is..." "Siona." "Siona McAllister. She's my girlfriend. Nick is my brother. Nick Olson is my brother, and he was in here when I got here. He stabbed her, and when he saw me, he hit me and ran out the front door." I went through all the logical questions: address, age, description, possible motive. Possible motive? I don't know. Why would he do this? So much was happening all around me, a complete overload of the senses. Even now, seven years later, I can't remember all the details. Blurring memories of paramedics, cops, blood, along with the smell of food and candles. Everything was white and gray and red and green. They're bringing in the little cat on wheels, hoisting her up onto it. The monitor is next to her making the beeping sound. The beeping sound is good. It means she still has a heartbeat.

"Mr. Olson, we are sending ofcers to your brother's house right now." "I have to go with her to the hospital. I don't give a shit about Nick. He can rot in hell." What do I do? What do I do? My eyes couldn't contain the tears anymore. They came rolling down as if to betray my weaknesses to the policeman in front of me. He helped me get cleaned up a little and put me in the cop car. We went to the hospital, and I waited. I waited and waited and waited.

I am jolted back to the present by the waitress who disturbs my reverie by asking me for my order. I absently grab the menu and tell her a cinnamon roll. I can't eat right now, not with this in my head. She smiles and takes my menu away. How many times do I have to hash this shit out in my head? I swear to God, if I think about this one more second, I'll want to kill myself. It's like that group of self-fagellating monks who beat themselves with a pulky rope until they bleed, and then they wear wool shirts to rub away at the raw fesh, all in the name of the Almighty. At least I'm not the only person beating themselves up on a regular basis.

I don't know why I'm so hard on myself. They told me at the hospital that if it hadn't been for me walking in and then applying direct pressure on the wound, she would have probably died right there in the stinking hallway. Siona's savior. Right. The savior that couldn't save himself.

Her parents were quick to tell me that I was the reason their daughter was alive. However, I could see in their eyes the unspoken words of blame, that it was because of my stupid brother the whole thing happened in the frst place. Stupid fucking Nick. It's not like we didn't try to work it out. Eventually, Nick was sentenced for the stabbing, attempted murder, as well as the drunk driving offense that killed my mother. I wished several times that it was me he killed, or tried to kill. That it was me that had to deal with the pain. Why is he killing everyone else in my family? Right now, he has at least 10 more years before the next hearing. I hope he never gets out.

She knew he was in for a long time. She realized that nothing else was going to threaten her now, but in the end, she fnally blamed me for everything. Not exactly the enlightened being I thought she once was. My cinnamon roll appeared before me, dripping warm sugary frosting onto the white circular plate underneath. It reminds me of a halo. The halo I thought she wore. Nope. Turns out she is a mere mortal. I will never forget that day we talked it out for hours. It was a Sunday in February of the next year after the stabbing. We were sitting in the front room, me on the couch and her across from me in the racking chair. Her head hung limply, staring down at the foor a few feet away from her. I had gotten used to this blank zombie state over the past few months. It was a look that said nothing. The eyes had none of the former shying they once held.

"Siona? What's going on?" I tried to sound nonchalant, but this was bugging the shit out of me. The past few months had been agony. She sustained a shoulder injury as well as a punctured lung. After spending a week in the ICU at the hospital, she underwent shoulder repair and had a long recovery period. For many weeks, we struggled with the large foam pillow wedged under her left arm, trying to devise different ways for her to make shifts, shower, and perform the other activities of living she needed to get through the day. She was on narcotics for a long time, so I pretended that was the reason for her passive stare and nonverbal state.

"Are you depressed? What are you thinking?" I was really afraid of the truth at this point. "I don't know. It's hard to fgure out exactly how I'm feeling. I guess I'm a little depressed. Thinking about seeing a therapist." She played with the hem of her shirt with no eye contact whatsoever. "That sounds like a great idea. I'm sure you still have periods of shock over the whole thing."

"You know I love you, right?" "God damn it, look at me!" I was screaming on the inside. "I wish you would talk to me. Why can't you talk to me? I feel like you're blaming me for this whole thing. You know it had nothing to do with me, right?" My voice was getting a little louder. I had to admit that there was some inner rage that wanted out. It wasn't me. It wasn't my fault my brother is a psycho. He's going to jail. What else could I do?

She looked at me with that blank stare. The girl I once knew was gone. She had disappeared, and now all my joy was gone. How could I get her back? Her light blue eyes started welling up with tears. Slowly, the water started seeping out of the inner corners of her eyes, adding to the illusion of a vast, uncharted ocean. I was the guy on the boat, cast adrift, wandering aimlessly to a destination I wasn't sure existed. "I can't feel me. I can't feel myself anymore," she said weakly. I moved over to her and squatted down to face her evenly. "Please know that I love you. You are safe. You don't have to worry about anything hurting you. I will protect you with my life. You know that, right?" I wanted to cry as well, but it wouldn't portray the strong, protective male presence that I was trying to impress on her.

"You say that, but deep inside I still have my doubts. As long as there is any doubt, I can't go on with you. Maybe we just need a break so I can hash things out with a therapist. Go to Mom and Dad's for a while." She looked back down at her hands as if they held the answer to her mental problems. "Siona, don't do that. I mean, yes, see a therapist, but stay. Stay here with me and we can work things out. Please?" My eyes started to betray me. I didn't know what to do. I was hanging on for dear life, trying to hoist myself up over the cliff to safety. What would my life be like without her? Would I go back to being a pizza delivery guy with no future, no thoughts about anything meaningful? Could I possibly continue to mull over abstract concepts, consider some mind-expanding notions by myself, without anyone to talk to about them?

I could see now what this was. It all comes fooding back to me in some warped epiphany. I stare down at my cinnamon bun many years in the future, looking back at me with its own white, watery eye. It was like the cinnamon bun had become a knowing sage. Siona was my life guide. She was my personal savior in a way. She had awoken me from a monotonous life and taken me on a journey to a new, more exciting one. Not only did I love her for the beautiful woman she was, I relied on her to fll up my consciousness, to awaken the spiritual being I never knew I was.

She tried to smile weakly, but it was just a front. There was no hope left in her eyes. We were at an end. I hung my head and crapped my face, tearing my hair with my fngers as she slowly walked back into the bedroom. I remember leaving the house to go to work, even though I didn't have to be there for another hour. As much as I wanted to try, I knew she needed her space. My fngers were slipping slowly and painfully off the rocky cliff. I had no one now. My exit from the house was a free fall into the black, endless void of space.

I drifted aimlessly through the next year of my life, frst learning to live on my own, and then pushing myself into hyperdrive to fnish my degree while I was working to make ends meet. I swore I would never eat pizza again, because it was all I lived on from the parlor.

Now look at me. A pizza company owner. I had to laugh even though I risked being stared at by the other customers in the restaurant. That's okay. Maybe they would think I was just another crazy street guy. Chapter 3.

As I walk back to the ofce, I remember that tonight is yoga meditation class at the gym I occasionally attend. One thing I have maintained as a priority for my physical and mental health. After all the separation shit from Siona, I had to remind myself continually that I had to come frst. Someone said that we are born alone and die alone, so make sure you're your strongest ally. That saying really doesn't make sense if you take the presence of your mother into the equation, but then again, most of those weird sayings don't make a lot of sense. Plus, who knows if you're going to die alone? Maybe there will be 20 people standing around when it happens. I guess they mean the traveling part, from this realm to the next, and vice versa.

There are about 10 or 12 other people scattered through the room, darkly lit with candles randomly placed around. The smell is heavenly, like a mix of citrus and lavender. It reminds me that my life is starkly absent of women. They seem to have the ability to create scent wherever they go. I do miss that. But then I miss a lot of things.

The theme tonight is gratefulness. Something that we usually don't practice as a rule. You're supposed to wake up and think of things you're grateful for every day. This will supposedly start off your day with a bang and produce a feeling of spaciousness. We need to look at things from a bigger perspective. Wasn't it Shakespeare that said, "Things are neither good nor bad, but thinking makes it so"? He's a regular Buddha in a different time and place.

What am I grateful for? Sure, we can all be thankful for living, homes, food, jobs, friends. At least most people can. But it still hangs over me. It pervades my thankfulness. I can't help but feel the void left by Siona, and the power of resentfulness towards my own brother. The fact that we both share the same DNA is preposterous to me. We couldn't be more polar opposites than we are right now. He is a murderer, an attempted murderer anyway, living in an orange jumpsuit behind bars. His life must really suck. I am a successful businessman living on the West Coast, sitting in a dark yoga room, thinking about being grateful. And yet, I can also identify feelings of sorrow for him. Feelings of a long-ago bond that DNA demands. As the class ends, we chant our communal alms and bow to the instructor. I roll up my mat and make my way home. The streets are crowded, with the usual assortment of crazy, busy, sidetracked individuals that make up this nutty place.

My apartment is warm, and my cat, Bozo, is curled up on the couch, indignantly dismissive of me. I make some supper and start reading. Life is predictable, and sometimes downright boring. But it beats being in jail. As I drift off, I have memories of Nick as a 9-year-old in his Superman costume, racing across the living room foor. "King of the world! Savior of the universe!" He's the one that needs saving now. I am traveling in a magical place with a winding dirt road nestled in beautiful rolling hills, covered with bright green grass and a few trees dotting the sides of the road. Every color is magnifed, as if I were on a hallucinogen. The world is a clean, beautiful place. My steps are slow and thoughtful as I slowly meander along. Suddenly, I am accompanied by a sage of some sort. His dark skin and white fowing wrap indicate he is Indian. He is walking beside me now, and we start to talk. We are discussing philosophical principles: how life can be seen, and how to raise our vibrational patterns to maximize our spiritual potential. I feel enlightened by his presence.

As we walk, I look down and see a dirty pizza box. How could someone leave that dirty box here? It's terrible. It's an eyesore, I say to him. He stops and faces me. He is disappointed in me, and I feel defated. "Why haven't you learned anything?" He assaults me with his accusations, making me feel like a stupid child. "Stop judging things. This is not your place. It is below you. Set your inner sight higher, and no things are neither good nor bad. This is an illusion. The pizza box is here only when we view it. Remember the Buddha says that all things are an illusion. You have heard about quantum theory. You know there are other states of consciousness. You know you create your own reality. That is the truth. Start living the truth."

I bow my head before him with reverence. When I look up, he is gone. The pizza box is gone. But inside, I am free. I feel alive and vibrant. I feel optimism and joy. So much joy. It is as if God had spoken directly to me. I had received the greatest gift of my life.

I open my eyes to see Bozo laying next to my stomach. His orange and white fur looks soft and luxurious in the low light from the living room lamp. I can't stop smiling from the dream. I grab a notebook from the side table and quickly write down everything I can remember. This was extraordinary. I somehow got instructions from the universe on how to see my life. I had to change. I had to start living again. I had to fnd forgiveness.

Chapter 4. It was my newfound attitude, or maybe just serendipity, but the next day I saw the girl at the coffee shop. She looked magnifcent, with her blonde hair in a sloppy bun, her hoop earrings, and stained white apron. I fnally got up the courage to ask her name. She said it was Chris. We spent some time talking about mundane things. I had to come up with ideas on what to say, so I glanced around at a poster pinned to the bulletin board and asked if she'd seen the play it was advertising. She said no, so I asked her if she wanted to go. She accepted, and we set it all up.

What a fantastic day. It was like the exceptional day you have once in a few months where everything goes right. Even the sun came out and the drizzle stopped. Things were looking up. On the inside, I continued to feel the residue of the dream, and then a wave of gratefulness swept over me. I landed a new deal with the meat supplier and was keeping my costs down. My profts were slowly growing, and I fantasized about taking a long vacation.

When I got home and laid down next to Bozo, I fell into a trance-like meditative state. What was this human experience all about? Feeling everything your whole life—joy, sorrow, peace, hatred, confict, and worry—what did it all mean? If we could minimize our reactions to events that happened to us, or some say "for us," wouldn't that be optimal in maintaining mental health?

I thought back on the sage in my dream. He was right. When I didn't have to make a judgment on Nick or Siona, it was such a lightness. Like dropping a huge burden. I don't have to live his life or make any judgment whatsoever. Holding onto resentment kept me in my own prison. I felt like I fnally had the key to unlock it, and it was inside myself.

I made a decision. I had to see Nick. I had to put this behind me forever. I jumped up and grabbed my laptop to search for the frst fight to Milwaukee. I was doing this now, damn it. Next Thursday, there was an 8:15 a.m. fight with one stop in Denver. I booked it and started to think about what the hell I was going to say.

I hadn't seen Nick since his sentencing about 8 years ago. I wonder what he looks like, and how it's been in prison. I think he was up for parole in another 2 years. It seemed like another life. Another person altogether. I wasn't sure what I would fnd, but felt compelled to go.

I made a mental list of places I wanted to try and see, including the old apartment and Siona's old house. I needed to visit Mom's grave as well. Hope they're keeping up the place. I packed what I thought I might need and waited to do the rest the night before. In the meantime, I called Chris to have a little chat. I really wanted to get to know her better. I should probably tell her the whole drama at some point, but didn't want to scare her off in the frst week. That will have to wait for a later time.

The fight was uneventful, but landing in Chicago, I got the old Midwestern vibe: masses of people rushing through the airport to catch a fight or a shuttle. The constant work and exposure to brutally cold temperatures had an effect on these people. It was as if life was so busy and time was so feeting that you had to spend every spare second partying hard or shopping to spend your hard-earned cash. Chicago is the city that works, and the people had stress written on their faces to prove it. Just a short puddle jumper over to Milwaukee, and I was back in my old stomping grounds. Halloween was coming fast, and there were plenty of reminders in the airport. I rented my car, a new Toyota Camry, and set off to explore. I sat behind the wheel before leaving the rental lot. What the hell was I doing here? I had rushed this trip so hard from the afterglow of a meditational moment and an epiphanic dream. But this was a different world. It was the world of my past. My childhood. I felt like an alien here. I had no itinerary, no planned script to talk to Nick. I didn't even know what the hell to say to him. I found myself heading back to the old apartment. Nothing had changed in the last 10 years. The building still looked like a timeless brick fortress with old windows and black fre escape stairs. The alley was still there, our playland from the late '70s, complete with garbage receptacles. Now there were large, green and brown dumpsters instead of dented metal tin cans. A young Hispanic couple with an umbrella stroller struggled with a big, old wooden door, now painted a dark brown color rather than the antique white I remember.

My stomach churned from my missed breakfast, and I felt a sad, lonely feeling inside. Like one of those hollow chocolate sanas wrapped in foil. I wanted to cry, to be honest. I wanted to cry for all the people I missed, but most of all, for all the time I wasted being Nick's little pawn. I had accepted the role of his serf, his lowly servant that existed to make his life easier, so he could make the big bucks at the factory and not have to worry about Ma. I snickered silently at my own naivety. What a dupe I was. But I was digressing in this thought, and I knew it. I was past it. Just one last visit to self-pity land before my fnal resignation, then it no longer mattered in my life. I was here now. A completely different person. I was a grown man.

I got an idea to go back to the pizza parlor. The weeds had grown up around the neighborhood considerably, as if very few people walked down the street on this block. The parlor was now a cosmetology school, complete with a new sign that hung over the door saying "Central Cosmetology," alongside a pink pair of scissors and a powder puff. Do women still use powder puffs? I had no idea, and the place was dark inside. It made me sad to think of all the hours I had spent spinning dough, shoveling it into the stoves, and looking out this window. This window right here. It was the lookout on my world. Tony's son must have sold the place. No doubt, because he had made it in Chicago and owning a pizza joint in Central Milwaukee just didn't matter to him. It's just as well. Less competition for me in the end. I had to laugh to myself about all the years in the past when I thought owning a pizza place would be the top of the career ladder. Now I had 12 pizza places and planned to expand. Life sure works in mysterious ways.

I drove down the street until I found a deli with reasonable choices. I was starved, so I ordered a Reuben and side of fries with an iced tea. I felt luxurious biting into that juicy meat, and my eyes wandered around the café, musing about the other people eating lunch. What the hell? Out of the corner of my eye sat good old Bob, next to the window, staring down at his burger with grease dripping out of the corner of his mouth.

"Bob?" I asked, not wanting to sound so unsure of myself but unable to fully grasp the toll that 8 years had taken on him. His hair was graying and thinning from forehead to crown. His waist was much thicker, and the lines on his face more carved. "Holy shit. Is that you, bro?" He started cackling loudly as the other patrons turned their heads to see what was going on. He slammed a half-eaten burger down on the plate, blowing some fries onto the table. "Oh my god, I can't believe it. You came back, you son of a bitch." His eyes twinkled their usual elfsh delight, minus some of the old glossy-eyed stoned effects. He immediately came over to the table and slapped me hard on the back. I rose to meet him as his eyes grew wide with disbelief. I could hardly believe this myself. I hadn't thought about Bob for years. "Wow, man, you look so grown up. Look at you, man. I mean, look at you. Big shoulders and arm muscles too, man. It's too much, bro. It's too much."

He looked like he would cry at that moment, like he just saw his son for the frst time in a decade. "Bob, what the hell is going on? Imagine seeing you here. I can't believe I ran into you. What an absolute surprise." "Wait a minute, man. What's with the Ivy League talk? I mean, I knew you were in school and all, but you're fucking smart, man. I can tell you're in a different league now. Are you moving back?" "Thanks, Bob. I don't know what to say to that, but no, no, I'm just here for a visit." "You mean to visit Nick, right? He looks sober than I had ever seen before." "Yeah, that's right. I haven't seen him for 8 years. I thought it was time." He looked at me in a thoughtful way. "Wow, dude. You have some cojones now. I don't think I could forgive him myself. You know what I mean?" "Well, that's kind of why I'm here. I need to talk things out with him. I need to let the shit go." "Was I really opening up to Bob?" "I know what you mean, man. Let the shit go. Let it go."

"I haven't seen Nick for a couple of years. I used to go in there and try to visit him, but it was such a downer, man. I couldn't do it no more. I just couldn't do it. He looks so sad and guilty." "Bob, it's not your responsibility to look after Nick. He made his own choices. You have to move on with your life too." Our eyes met, and his eye wrinkles crinkled up a bit more. "You are a wise man." "You're so right, man. So right. I do have to move on, dude. I'm working at the factory now, making some pretty good dough. I took over his apartment. Just kind of worked out that way."

He really did look happy. "It's been so great seeing you, Bob. I never imagined that I would run into you, but I'm so glad I did." He grabbed me and pulled me close in a huge bear hug. The other patrons in the restaurant looked up curiously. He almost looked like he would cry. "I'm so proud of you, man. So proud. You got out of here and did something with yourself after all that shit. Good for you, man. Good for you." He hung onto my arm for a bit more time before I prodded him to get back to eating. "Take care, Bob. Good luck." "You too, man. Good luck."

We went back and fnished up eating. That was more emotional than I expected. Hell, if it was this weird seeing Bob, what would it be like to see Nick? The sun was starting to peek out from behind the large cumulus clouds skirting quickly across the sky. I decided to make my last little visit before Nick. I got into the car and drove over to Siona's old apartment. The streets were full of activity because people knew winter and colder temperatures were coming. It's best to get outside when you can. A couple were out, walking a big German Shepherd. Kids were randomly riding skateboards and bikes. It was a nice day. I rounded the corner and had a look. There it was. A little smaller than I remembered and a little bit grayercolored. They must have painted recently. The gravel drive had just as many errant weeds bulking through the rocks as it used to. I parked in front of the house, risking being taken as a stalker. I didn't see anyone home. As a matter of fact, the front porch looked naked. No chairs, no plants. Not like the old days when we lived here. It made me sad to see it. As if the house had a soul and felt lonely without us. My mind traveled back to a day we were sitting in the old bamboo rockers on the porch. Smiley the cat wound herself around my legs, and I almost rocked over her tail. She squealed and ran off into the house. Siona gave me a suspicious look. "Did you do that on purpose?" "What, me? I love Smiley. Why would I do that?" I said facetiously. There was an ongoing joke about me trying to put Smiley in an early grave because she obviously didn't like me. "I love Smiley because I love you," I said in a very logical way. "There's nothing I wouldn't do for you, babe. Even loving a cat that would probably try to kill me in my sleep if she got the chance."

We smiled at each other. "I love you too." Siona gave me an air kiss and turned back to the paper she was working on. That was a good day. We never know them when we're having them. We only can remember the really good days in retrospect. You can't remember the specifc date or time. You just remember how great the moment was. One great day seems to outweigh a hundred. Or a thousand immemorable days. I found myself staring at the porch screen and remembered where I was. "Holy shit, that came out of nowhere," I said out loud. I had tried a couple of times to connect with her, but never got a response. I get it. She had post-traumatic stress disorder. I wouldn't communicate either. Some idiot stab you in the chest.

Every wish inside me, every longing to get back to her, was countered by the logic I could see from her side. I loved, I love her so much. I just want her to be happy. That's where I stand now. I am doing the right thing by leaving her alone and letting her and me move on with life.

I looked up into the rearview mirror. "Well, you can't look back, man, because you are moving forward." I started the engine and made my way toward the prison.

Chapter 5 Nick was being held in Green Bay at the correctional institute there, so I had a couple of hours in the car to listen to music and take in the countryside. Wisconsin is a beautiful state, just not so much from November through March, when the Arctic push comes south from Canada and you freeze your tail off. I had time to formulate my thoughts about Nick. The old thoughts and the new thoughts. My whole life had been consumed by what Nick thought and the expectations that came from him as an older brother and caretaker.

Those days were over, and I could see the bigger picture now. I had resolved myself to feeling almost apathetic about the events that transformed my current living situation. Thank god for shitty events, because sometimes it's just what we need to make ourselves over into someone new. I had to tell myself that I'm moving on. No longer to have self-doubts or make myself cave into someone else's notion of who I should be. Now that I had hashed through that mental stuff, I could concentrate on nothing. So I just stared out at the land and sky and felt completely light, without a care in the world. The oppressive-looking brick building came into view, and I started to sense a rise in my pulse rate. "Whew. Keep chill, man. This is going to go off just as you imagined it would. No arguing. No blaming. No judgment. I'm going in there to have my fnal say and divorce this guy from my life." Enough is enough. I have evolved even if he hasn't. Though as I walked toward the facility, I thought, who am I to judge? Maybe he has evolved. Maybe the last 8 years of contemplation has brought Nick to a higher brain frequency. I had to give it a chance, but found myself smiling at the bizarre notion. The air was cooler here, and I ambled slowly across the gravel parking area to the front door of the building. There was a lot of police presence here, with metal detectors, screeners, and large burly men with weapons, ready to pounce on a moment's notice. They looked at me suspiciously as I announced my intention. "I'm here to see Nick Olson. I'm his brother."

There was a lot of paper shufing and communications behind the scene as I sat waiting for almost the next hour. I had looked through the daily paper and assorted magazines in the waiting area, as well as consumed another cup of coffee, giving my increased pulse another boost. Just what I didn't need. Finally, a rough-looking ofcer with a fabby midsection came out of the double-locked doors to my left. "Okay, Mr. Olson, I think we have things all in order. Your brother will have 15 minutes to talk to you. Have you been here before?"

"No, sorry. I haven't." "Sorry? I'm not really sorry I haven't." Still, he looked at me with elevated eyebrows to suggest that I had been negligent in my family duties. If he only knew. He gave me a quick rundown of how the phone worked, what the rules were as far as language, noise level, and strongly suggested there would be no beating on the thick plexiglass between us.

I gave my consent to all the above regulations, signed in again, and followed him through the doublelocked doors. There was a lot more noise inside, as far as voices with strange amplifed qualities due to the low ceiling and the sound of doors locking and unlocking. This was a typical prison scene from a movie. I couldn't believe I was actually here. And I defnitely couldn't believe that Nick had been here for the last 8 years. What a fucking drag.

I don't want to give myself into feeling sorry for him, though. It was his play, and he was paying the price. "This is where you sit, and here's the phone. He should be in in a minute. Don't forget we have a patrolling ofcer on this side, so there is some safety, but not much privacy." "No problem. Thanks, ofcer," I said as I took my seat.

I could see another cubicle two down with a woman talking through the phone to someone on the other side, which I couldn't make out. This was it, I thought. This is my chance. My chance to tell him everything I ever wanted to but never could. This is my chance to make things right for Ma, Siona, and myself. I took a big breath and let it out. He was coming into my sight, I think. I could hardly tell if this was Nick or not. He looked so damn old and rather scrawny in comparison with his former self. His hair was graying on the sides and thinning at the top. His forehead lined with wrinkles, and his eyes carrying big bags below them looked watery and very sad. Holy shit. It was him. He smiled weakly and sat opposite of me. We just stared at each other for a minute without saying much.

"Hi, bro," he fnally managed to utter with a graveled voice. "Glad you came." Taking a big sigh, I said, "Hi, Nick. Good to see you fnally. How are you holding up?" "Well, you know, it's not a cakewalk, but I got my routine down. And it's looking pretty good for getting out early. Maybe as early as 2 more years. I have a parole hearing then."

I weighed this in my mind. What did I care? I probably would never see him again anyway. To each his own. "Well, that's good for you, Nick. Good for you." I said this in the most non-judgmental way possible, without any undertones of malice. "Yeah. Good for me, I guess." He looked down at the table like a lost child. "Okay, man. Well, I guess we don't have a ton of time, so I'm here to tell you some things. And I would appreciate it if you would just listen to me. Okay?"

He looked up, then up to the ceiling, and with some resignation said, "Yeah. Okay, man. Okay." I mean, what else do I have to do? Right. Well, here it is. There was a slight hesitation, and then it came pouring out. "I'm here to tell you that even though you are my brother and we have been through a lot of shit together, I am no longer interested in seeing you or hearing anything you have to say to me. I have spent the last 8 years thinking and growing, I have educated myself, and come to realize a few things about you, Nick. I hope this doesn't come out too harsh, but frankly, you're an asshole. You're an asshole that killed my mother in a drunk driving accident. You're an asshole that held me down my entire life, forcing me to take care of Ma so you could have the big money and the more exciting life. But mostly, you're an asshole for trying to kill the love of my life, which drove her away. I'll never see you again because of you, Nick. Because you're an asshole."

Now that you know how I feel about you, I have to add this bit, and this is the most important bit, so I want you to remember this. I forgive you. I forgive you for being a huge asshole because it sets me free. It sets me free to never have anger or regret or feelings of loss. I forgive you, Nick, because it also releases your control over me forever, and that's what I need.

I gulped some air and felt my stomach muscles relax. The tension of over 30 years gave way. My heart felt light. I felt almost giddy and grateful and fnally happy. I think I was even smiling. He looked down onto the four-mic counter for a couple minutes. Finally, he looked up at me. He had tears in his eyes that started to fow down his cheeks unfettered. They fowed down to hang momentarily on his chin before plapping sloppily onto the hard gray surface. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I really didn't expect this out of him. It gave me a surprise internally. Never in my life did I imagine coming in here and having Nick cry and apologize to me. "You're so right, man. You're so right. I did do all that shit. I've thought about it too. And I think you're so right."

I am a huge asshole. I feel so bad about Ma and Siona. It's all I think about. I can't believe you even came in here today. I wouldn't have, you know. You're more than I ever was, you know. You're a big man, and I'm a small one. You deserve to live out there. I deserve to live in here.

Right then, the guard came over and said, "Time's almost up. You have to wrap it up." "Well, Nick, I guess I want to leave you with this. After all is said and done, I want you to get better. I still believe in you. I believe you can change and come out of this thing okay. You have to do some selfinspection, but don't get too down. There's still a lot out there to live for. I want you to know that. After all is said and done, I still love you for being my brother. Do you hear me?"

I looked at him with some hope that he would drop the thick-skull routine and actually make some progress. I also didn't want him getting so depressed he did something desperate. "I hear you, man. I love you too. You are a great person. Say, what are you doing now? I just want to know what happened with you."

He looked genuine, so I told him, "I own a pizza chain in Seattle and we'll be expanding. You always said I couldn't do it. I did it, Nick. I really did it."

"Wow, man. I can't— I can't believe it. President Olson. That's fucking amazing. I am so proud of you, man. I love you."

Right then, the guard from his side told him time was up. He smiled at me. "Bye." He spoke his last word to me, and that was it.

I smiled back, hung up the phone, and watched him being shufed back down the hallway. I just sat there, looking at the yellow receiver. I had fnished my quest and felt completely exonerated. It was worth the travel and time after all. That part of my life was closed now, and it was a complete relief. Chapter 6 They say that time stands still for no man. This is such an understatement because not only won't it stand still, it seems to be whizzing past me at an unbelievable pace. Once, my life seemed stagnant and dull. Now it's flled with possibility and challenges. I had to think that Siona was the catalyst for this. She dug me up and planted me, so to speak. What would my life have been without her?

I smiled to myself as the gentle rolling hills of eastern Wisconsin gradually drifted past my car window. Somewhere, she's out there. She's happy. I just know it. I have to believe that. I hope she believes that I'm happy too. Maybe she's playing with the animals at her parents' farm. I don't know. The car ride back to the airport was relaxing in a way I have never felt before. The weight of 30 years was gone, and I was free to live without fear, guilt, sadness, or judgment. Trafc started picking up, and I could feel the ecstatic energy of the airport up ahead. I walked through the maze of people feeling as though I was foating above the ground, not really a part of this throng of humanity. I felt undefeatable. I picked up a bag of mixed nuts and some tea at the shop before sitting in my boarding area. I thought about calling Chris again to talk about our upcoming date, but thought better of it. I didn't want to break the spell of how I was feeling at this moment, even with a good contact.

I walked up to the queue to board, and Nick entered my mind. I was sending him love and hope. I want him to succeed in some small way. I wish him the best, but I know I will never see him again, as long as it's my choice. His voice entered my head again, and I could see his eyes flled with tears. I could hear his voice, flled with pride.

The attendant scanned my boarding pass. I looked down to see my name, and Nick's voice said, "President Olson." I whispered to myself, "That's me. President Peter Olson."

This has been Nick and me.