
Nick and Me   
 
 
     1 
Big brother was mine. I’m not talking about that stupid book we had to read in junior 
high about how the world was gonna turn weird and everybody could see everything you were 
doing all the time. No, I’m talking about my real Big Brother. Nick was the guy everybody was 
scared of. He had a pair on him the size of steel wrecking balls. His face looked like a puzzle 
with the pieces held together with sticky stuff from a glue gun. He wasn’t ugly, just had a few 
brawls over the years to give him that rough look. It was like he rolled out of bed and forgot to 
comb his hair. A few scars here and there, chin and over his left eyebrow. When he walked in the 
bar, or the gym, people took notice, and man, did they move out of the way. I lived with him and 
Ma after dad took off when I was about eight. We lived downtown in a big brick apartment 
building on Kirk Street. A fifth-floor walk-up, so it was a real pain in the ass to haul up the 
groceries and stuff. Luckily, when I went to the store with Nick, he could load up with about six 
of those shopping bags and take them up in one trip, like he was in one of those “world’s 
strongest man” competitions, where they throw boulders over walls, or pull cars with just their 
teeth. I held the rest. 
 One time, when we went into Moxie’s, the gym down on the corner, one of those guys in 
there was doin’ preacher curls with a 40-pound bar on the curl bench. He was right in the middle 
of a set, but as soon as he saw Nick moving towards him, he dropped that sucker right down on 
the ground and offered it up. Nick just nodded at him, then took over the place. Of course, he had 
to have a 50-pound bar, but that was just for warm-ups. I’m not too shabby when it comes to



weight lifting, but I aint gonna curl no fifty pounds as a warm-up. Hell, I aint gonna curl a 50-
pound weight probably ever. That’s okay though, Nick is my brother, like I said. I know he’ll 
stand up for me no matter what. 
 Milwaukee is where we live. It’s where we lived all of our lives. Right there, on Kirk 
Street in that fifth floor apartment. We used to play kick ball in the alley behind the building and 
set up bases with dented-in garbage can lids. One time little Mark Conner kicked a ball right 
through old Mrs. Engel’s kitchen. Man, was she pissed. Mark was scared to death, but Nick 
stepped right up to her and said he was the one who did it. She called my Ma, and Ma had to pay 
for the window. Somehow Nick gave her cash to pay for it about a week later. I have no idea 
where a 12-year old came up with sixty bucks, but I was sure proud of him for that. He never 
told Ma that it was really Mark who did it. None of us did.     
 The thing about Nick was, he was a real-life Viking - you know? What I mean is we had 
these ancestors that came from Norway or Sweden or somewhere over there in Viking land and 
they came over here and stayed in Wisconsin. So, we are Vikings too, I guess. You never hear 
about Vikings, but they are the biggest bad-asses on the planet. I don’t care about gangsters from 
Mexico or China, or even Irish people. Hell, all they do is drink anyways. What I’m talking 
about are tall, strong people who survived in the middle of winter all the time. While other 
people would freeze to death, those bastards kept warm.  Not only did they keep warm, but they 
ran around in short skirts and shit. They made canoes and Viking boats and sailed all over the 
place. They took over everybody back then. Nobody knows it, but half of Europe is mixed up 
with Viking blood. 
 Most of them had red hair I think. We don’t really have red hair. But I would say Nick 
has reddish-brown hair. Ma has brown hair and she was mostly English I guess. When I think of



the way those Vikings used to live over there it makes me all proud. They had those huge swords 
and when somebody died, they floated them out to sea on a raft and set them on fire. That’s the 
way it should be. None of this taking up space with caskets and shit. Just set me on fire and float 
me out on a raft. It is so cool to see fire on top of water. 
 I guess that’s why people respect Nick and our family, even though dad took off. He is a 
modern-day warrior. When we go downtown to the bars, Nick always goes in first to check out 
the place. The bouncers are even scared of him. He likes to walk into places where everybody is 
running out. He’s a crazy man. He has a girlfriend most of the time, but when they get really 
clingy he gets rid of them. He just doesn’t need that hassle. He goes where he wants, when he 
wants, and does whatever he wants. Nobody questions that guy. 
 Nick has a job down at the local metal factory. He runs one of the assembly lines down 
there. Big metal pieces move past and he separates things. Sometimes he runs one of the big 
cranes inside that lifts the stuff up to a higher level. He said it’s pretty easy for the money. He 
must make a lot because he has a nice car and a pretty cool apartment down on Werner Street. 
He lives about five blocks from Ma and me, but he comes over a lot to take care of stuff, so it 
feels like he still lives here. I wish I made enough money to get my own place, but then again, 
someone has to be here with Ma. She’s getting older and it’s hard for her to see. Sometimes she 
gets up in the middle of the night and runs into furniture. I don’t want her to fall down and 
nobody knows about it. Ma’s had a tough life, tougher than any of us. With dad leaving, then 
putting up with Nick and me, that’s something else. 
 Nick has a cool car, like I said. It’s a 1980 Pontiac Trans Am all decked out. It’s a V8 
with power everything, a T-top, and exhaust splitters. It only had one repaint job, and it’s a sweet 
burnt orange with yellow flames on the side, and the big eagle still on the hood. He got a great



deal from some guy in Chicago who brought it up here. Only cost him 12-grand and has 75,000 
miles on her. I love riding in that thing. People always look up when Nick pulls up to the lights 
in that car. 
 The other day he comes over to check on us. “What’s Ma doin’ back in the bedroom at 
this time of day?” he says.  
 “I don’t know, why?” 
 “You got to keep an eye on her. She shouldn’t be sleeping in the middle of the day like 
that. That’s how old people go downhill. They start sleepin’ all day, and pretty soon before you 
know it, they don’t want to go outside, or eat, or go to the store or nothing” Nick says. Nick was 
right. I needed to take better care of her. It was my responsibility after all, I was living there to 
keep an eye on her. I told him I would do a better job and make her get up and sit out in the 
living room with me. But even when I do that it’s a big drag. All she wants to do is watch game 
shows and sometimes the cooking channels. Not that she bothers to even cook anymore hardly. 
It’s like she’s just bored all the time. She never even bothers to call her sister, or go across the 
hall to talk to Mrs. Canasta. They used to talk and hang out all the time. I don’t know what’s 
wrong with her. 
 Ma worked for years being a janitor for the school system. She worked real hard 
everyday. Those little kids are just pigs. Somebody is always throwing up in the hallway, or 
spraying urine all over the bathroom. She’s probably cleaned up more kid’s snot and puke than 
anyone else I know. She started having back problems and had to take retirement. She doesn’t 
get very much money every month, but also collects some social security. Between her and me 
with my pizza job money, we make ends meet. It’s not always pretty. There’s a lot of pizza and 
macaroni around here. But what are you gonna do?



This is the real problem as I see it. I can’t afford to go back to school and study to get a 
“real” job, because somebody has to take care of Ma. Nick says,  
“You don’t need a degree to get a good job. All you need is to know somebody and you 
will get a good job someday. That’s how it always happens.” 
 Do you think he could get me a job at the metal factory though? No, he never even tries. 
Even when I complain and beg for him to talk to his boss about me, he won’t do it. I don’t know 
what all that’s about. But, if Nick doesn’t want me down there – there has to be a reason for it.  
“What kind of shit do you want to take at school anyway?” Nick says. “All that crap is 
just a bunch of nerds talking to hear themselves talk. Nobody ever learned anything in college 
that you can use in the real world. The real world is here – where we live. You’re not gonna be a 
doctor or lawyer or anything like that. Hell, you’re too old anyway.” 
Nick is right. I am too old. I haven’t got the brains to go to school. Besides, I have to take 
care of Ma and just do the best I can with what I got. No one ever died and wished they spent 
more time in a classroom; all the time they were just wishing they could be done. I do like 
reading though. I don’t tell nobody that. It doesn’t matter anyway.



2 
 
The reason why I’m telling you all this stuff, is because something weird is happening to 
me. I can’t really tell Nick, or Ma, or Bobby down at the pizza joint, because they wouldn’t 
understand. Hell, I don’t understand what’s happening. 
See, this one day I rode my bike to work, and just as I was walking down the sidewalk 
and into the front door of the pizza place, this girl tripped over the cement while she was walking 
toward me. She kind of fell into me. She fell and just kind of brushed into me with her shoulder. 
She had kind of short brown hair and was skinny. Not too skinny, but good looking in a way. 
The first thing I did was say, “Are you okay?” and she said, “Yes” and looked down at herself 
and brushed off her shirt. She was wearing a black short sleeved shirt with a V-neck. The kind of 
shirt you can get real cheap at Target or Walmart. She looked pretty good. She had on a necklace 
with some kind of fish symbol on it. She had jeans, and blue tennis shoes and a big backpack.  
We just kind of looked at each other and didn’t know what to say. So I finally said, “I 
work here, I’m just going to work. What is your name?”  
“Sionna” she said.   
“Sionna? That’s different. I never heard of that. What does that mean?” 
She started to tell me that her mom and dad named her after an Irish goddess, and then 
something about the River Shannon. I wasn’t really listening though, because she had the coolest 
eyes I ever saw. They were a real light blue color, and reminded me of the sky, like right before 
the sun comes up, when it’s still dark, but you can tell it’s blue. I asked her if she wanted to come 
in and have some pizza. She said, “No thanks, I don’t eat pizza, but if you want to go have a cup 
of coffee sometime, you can call me.”  I was a little freaked out. I never had a girl ask me out.



Not that she was really asking me out, but it kind of felt like that to me. It came out of her like it 
was no big deal. She spoke like cool blue, like the cool blue of her eyes. I got her phone number 
and told her I would call her later on. 
Now, this might not seem weird to you, but like I said no girl has ever been interested in 
me. She was not what I would describe as being “cute” but I would say she was “pretty”. She 
had that real pale skin, the kind you would see in some kind of English story. Like one of those 
old stories from a long time ago, when women wore big huge dresses and piled their hair up on 
their heads. She should have been holding a fan or something. 
When she walked away from me, she looked back over her shoulder kind of, like she was 
trying to remember what I was going to look like tomorrow when she wasn’t seeing me. It made 
me feel a little weird inside, like someone was lookin’ right through me or something. That 
wasn’t the weirdest thing though- here’s the weird thing that I can’t tell nobody. It was like I 
“knew” her or something. Like I had seen her somewhere before. But I didn’t, I would have 
remembered somebody like her. She seemed mysterious. I guess I would use a word here I have 
heard – intense-yea, that’s it, she was intense. 
I just watched her walk away. She moved real smooth. It was like there wasn’t any bones 
in her body. It reminded me of the waves I saw when I went to the ocean out by New Jersey 
once. We had an aunt and uncle that lived out there, and before dad left, we went on a family 
vacation to see them. This was the only time I remember going on a vacation with my family. 
But anyway, we got to see the ocean. It was so cool. I thought the waves were the coolest thing I 
ever saw. I liked the way they sounded when they came up onto the land. That’s how I felt when 
I looked at her. I felt like when I stood at that one place with my feet in the sand and they said 
the tides were coming in….pretty soon you have to move up or you’ll get covered with water.



That was like Sionna, except she was washing up on me, and I didn’t want to move my feet, I 
just wanted her to cover me completely. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     3 
 That day I met Sionna, when I got home, Ma was in a crazy mood. She was looking 
around the house mumbling to herself about trying to find her pain pills. She had her pills all out 
on the counter in a straight line so we didn’t have to mess with trying to figure out what to give 
her everyday. She would take a pill from the front bottle, move it to the back of the line, and so 
on. She did pretty good with it. That was one thing she did remember. That way, I didn’t have to 
be around constantly telling her what she was supposed to be taking. 
 She knew about this, but seemed confused.  
“Ma, what’s the matter?” I asked. 
“I can’t find my pain pills, I know I put them here somewhere. Did we go to church 
today? Did you see Mrs. Canasta there?”  
Okay, this was definitely weird. We hadn’t been to church for over fifteen years, and I 
aint seen Mrs. Canasta for at least the last year.



“Ma, what are you talking about? We don’t go to church anymore. Mrs. Canasta lives 
down one level, all’s you have to do is walk down there and see her if you want. Your pills are 
right in front of you in the box for today.” 
She gave me this look I never saw before from Ma. Her eyes were all glassy and looked 
really empty. It was like she didn’t know who I was or something. She snapped out of it though, 
and said, “Oh, right, I am so sorry. I see them right here. I don’t know what got into me.” 
Wow, she was losing it. I would have to tell Nick about this. I’m sure he’ll get mad or 
something –like it was my fault. Later on I went down to Joe’s to get a beer. I had to get out of 
the apartment. Ma was freaking me out. Chances are, I would see Nick down there. He always 
came down on Mondays to watch football on T.V. Everybody would sit around, or play pool, or 
darts, and start B.Sing about crap that went on that day. It made Mondays not seem so bad after 
all.  
So I was sitting at the bar watching the Packers game – this was a big one against the 
Bears –when Nick came in. He slapped me on the back. 
“Hey, little brother. What’s shakin’?” he said. 
“I don’t know. Nothin’.” 
“What’s the matter? I can tell you’re hidin’ something. What’s goin’ on?” 
I told him the story of Ma being all confused. Like I thought, he started getting pissed off. 
“I knew she would start going crazy cooped up in that place all day” he said.  “Why don’t you 
take her to the store or something? Holy Christ, do something with her before she turns into 
some demented old fart and we have to pay for a nursing home or something. I don’t have the 
money for that shit. Do you know how expensive that is? They take every last dime out of these 
old people, then leave the family in debt after they die. Is that what you want to happen?”



“Of course not. I just needed to get away from her for a while, that’s all.” He gave me 
that look like he wanted to punch me in the face. It was a little scary. I don’t think he would 
actually do it, but I’ve seen what he can do, and I don’t want that damage. He was right, of 
course, I did need to get home and watch Ma. I paid for my beer and told him I would watch it at 
home with her and I promised to get her out tomorrow and at least take a walk. 
“That’s more like it,” he said.  
God, sometimes I really hate Nick inside. I mean, he’s done so much for us, but at the 
same time, inside I really get tired of his shit. I would never tell anybody this, but I do get tired 
of it. It was freakin’ cold outside, and I walked a little faster than normal. When I looked up, I 
saw the library across the street and just halfway down the block. I should go in there, I thought. 
Who’s gonna know anyway? Ma can barely remember what the hell is going on, and Nick won’t 
know. 
I walked real fast over there and saw they were open till 9 o’clock, so I had a little time. 
What do people do in here anyways? I started looking around. There were lots of tables with 
people sitting reading newspapers and magazines. Then there was a desk in the front where a 
lady was moving books around behind her. This place was much bigger than I thought. There 
was stairs going to another floor. The windows were really big and the floors must have been 
wood from a hundred years ago. It smelled kind of old, but there was something attractive about 
it too. Old lights hung down on metal chains from the ceiling over the tables and down the aisles 
with all the books in them. I started thinking if anyone had the time to read all the stuff in here. 
Probably not. You probably couldn’t read all this stuff in a million years. It would make people 
smarter though, I bet. 
“How do I take a book home from here?” I asked the lady at the desk.



“Do you have a library card?” she asked. 
“No, how do I get one of those?” 
She showed me this piece of paper and I wrote down my name and address. Then she 
gave me a “temporary” paper card. She said a plastic one would be mailed to me within the 
week. That was cool, cause I got the mail anyway. It was like I could get anything in here for 
free. Who needed school anyway when you could get the same thing for free in the library? What 
stupid shit spends his money on classes when everything is right here, in this building? 
 
 I had no idea what I wanted in this place, but I just started walking down the rows 
looking at all the books. For some reason I ended up in the “classic literature” area and saw all 
these books by Shakespeare, Dickens, Eliot, Dumas, and Wilde. There was so many I didn’t 
know which one to pick out, but I thought they were all important if they were in that section, so 
I just picked out “Wuthering Heights” by a lady named Emily Bronte. I checked out the book 
with the lady at the desk, who gave me a thin little smile, and then walked home in the cold.  
Shit, I missed the whole game. Just as well, Chicago won by a touchdown anyway. Ma 
was already in bed when I got there. Since there was nothing to do, I started reading that book. It 
was pretty weird at first, because it was about a place in England a long time ago. It was about a 
guy named Heathcliff and a girl named Catherine. So far, it was a little like a soap opera. There 
was a lot of people doing different things, but I got the feeling that these two really loved each 
other. 
This reminded me of Sionna. I needed to call her, I thought I would do it in the morning 
since it was kind of late already. When I went to bed, I kept thinking of her. Somehow in my 
dream I mixed up Sionna and Catherine from the book. It was Sionna’s face, but she was



wearing old clothes, and riding horses and running through the outdoors all happy. I can’t 
remember if I was in this or not. I just got this feeling though that I would end up feeling for her 
just like Heathcliff did in the book. 
 
 
 
     4 
 
 The next day I woke up and Ma was at the kitchen table drinking her coffee. We sat there 
as usual just looking at each other with nothing to say really. I asked her what she did last night. 
Why didn’t she stay up till I got home? I tried to talk her into going for a walk. You would have 
thought I asked her to run a marathon or something. She gave me every excuse in the book. 
 “It’s so cold outside. I don’t have a nice coat to wear. Where are we going anyway?” It 
just went on and on and on. Finally, I just gave up. If Nick wants her to go outside so bad, then 
he can drag his ass over here and get her to go. 
 Of course, she probably would if Nick asked her. She listens to everything he says. He 
could ask her to swim across Lake Michigan, and she would probably try it for him. I swear 
sometimes, there’s no reason for me being born anyway, except to have somebody for Nick to 
boss around. One time, Nick told her he was getting serious about this girl he had. Like that was 
really going to happen. Anyways, Ma went so out of her way to smother this girl, it was so 
ridiculous. Having her over for steak dinners, inviting her for Thanksgiving, and trying to meet 
her parents – the whole deal. She was so deep in this shit that when Nick broke it off (of course),



she went haywire. She didn’t stop crying and sobbing for a week. I think she thinks she’s never 
having any grandkids. 
 The more I thought about that whole situation, the more pissed off I got, so I told Ma I 
was leaving for a little while. I would see her in a couple hours. When I got outside, I found the 
phone number Sionna gave me. I was shaking and wondering if she would even remember me at 
all. 
 “Hi.” 
“Hi, Sionna? This is the guy that got your number the other day outside of the pizzeria. 
Do you remember me?” 
 “Of course I do. How are you doing?” she asked. 
 “Fine, ummm, I was wondering if you want to go for that cup of coffee.” 
 “Absolutely.” She sounded so sure of herself, like she knew I was going to call at just 
that minute and had it all planned out. 
 We decided to meet downtown at a coffee shop called The Java Hut. I had seen this 
place, but never been in there. Mostly, because the people inside all looked like they were right 
out of a college magazine. Everybody carried around backpacks and textbooks. They sat around 
in groups talking about school and looking at their notes with each other, drinking coffee. 
Glasses sliding on and off of their heads as they made their points on different things they 
learned that day. It was just a little too cool for me, so I never stepped foot in the place – until 
now. 
 I walked in, and saw her near the wall in the back at a small table. She had a backpack 
too. What are we doing? Homework? I didn’t care though, because when I looked at her I didn’t 
see her washed out jeans, her soft leather shoes, or her long-sleeved loose green top with a hood.



All I saw were those eyes, they were like a watery blue crayon. When I looked into them, I lost 
all track of time and forgot who I was and what I was doing. I decided, she really was beautiful. 
 I asked her if she ever went to school. Of course she did. She had a degree in English and 
loved to read and write stories. Turns out she knew a lot about history and a million other things. 
I felt like a complete dumbass. I was sure she never wanted to see me again.  
 “What are you reading right now?” she asked. 
 Thinking of the good luck I had actually going to the library last night, I answered, 
“Wuthering Heights. It’s the story of this guy and girl and how they grew apart but were really in 
love with each other.” 
 “Yea, I know. I read it.” 
 Duh, how stupid of me. Of course she read it.  
What happened over the next half hour, though, made me think about the book in ways I never 
could have imagined. She talked to me about symbols in the book: about ghosts, and double 
characters, and the moors. The environment of the book was like its people. They were wild and 
unpredictable and infertile. The love that Heathcliff has for Catherine never changes, but in the 
end that kind of love destroys him. A love that never changes will destroy you. It reminded me of 
the way Nick is; strong and unwavering, but somehow it seemed dumb. I wondered if it would 
destroy him in the end too. 
 Something inside of me was coming awake. It was something I never felt before. It was 
like I could talk to Sionna about anything and she wouldn’t think it was stupid. I wanted to be 
around her more, and talk to her more. She was so smart; even though smart isn’t the right word 
for it. She was interesting. More interesting than any person I ever met before in my life. She 
made me feel smarter just by being around her. I thought that was impossible, but I guess not.



Actually, I guess I was getting smarter by being around her, because she had a way of teaching 
me things I never knew I really wanted to know. But, the more she talked, the better I felt. We 
made another date to go to dinner on Friday night. I couldn’t wait. As I walked away and down 
the street to the bus stop, I thought again about love that can end up killing you if you don’t let it 
go where it’s supposed to. Maybe that was Ma’s problem all along. Dad left, and Ma never 
moved on. It just ended up destroying her. Even if dad came back today, Ma would probably still 
forgive him. Forgive him for all the pain, the extra work, and lack of money. Forgive him for 
missing out on his kids growing up, the baseball games, and graduations. Forgive him for not 
being there to support her when times were tough, and she didn’t know what to do next. All she 
wants is that same guy, at that same time, doing that same thing he always did. I’m sure she 
wouldn’t care about any of the crap, she’d just be happy. 
 Well, I knew one thing – there aint no way I could ever forgive him. He is the lowest of 
the low. He left his whole family and made them raise themselves. He didn’t give two shits about 
us. Not to mention, it’s because he left that I’m in the place I am. No college, not a decent job, 
and above all, I have to listen to Nick. Let’s face it, Nick became my dad when I was eight. It’s a 
damn shame. 
 I would never do that. I don’t care if the woman I marry drives me freaking crazy, there’s 
just no cause to leave. People have responsibility. It is a guy’s duty to stand up for his family and 
take care of them. That’s how good kids are made. For me, the more time you spend doing 
something, the better off that thing will be. If you want to be a body builder, you have to lift the 
weights every day. If you want to be a good mechanic, you got to work on cars every day. 
Practice really does make perfect. Hell, I make a good pizza because I do it every day. I’m not 
saying being a parent is easy. Shit no, I saw how Ma suffered. I’m just saying the more you



practice being a good parent, the better the kids will be in the end. Maybe that’s why there’s so 
many shitty people in the world, cause nobody is practicing being a parent. 
 
 
      5 
 The sun is shining through the trees. Millions of specks of sunlight shine down on me and 
around me. The forest is thick and lush green foliage brushes against the brown mare I ride on. 
This is a deciduous forest from long ago. Moss grows thick on the north sides of the beautiful 
muscled bark on the oak and maple species. Varied woodland plants adorn the forest floor. 
Wood sorrel grows thickly under the softly treading hooves of the horse. Trillium offer up their 
creamy white and pink colors, and bleeding hearts show vibrant purples and pinks. The smell is 
intoxicating, but not as intoxicating as the smell of her neck. Her long brown hair hangs limply 
down to the small of her back. I am sitting very close behind her, holding on around her waist. 
Occasionally, I lean forward to place my face next to her neck in order to smell her distinct 
scent. It was like a mix of rose and warm grass.  
 We traveled slowly through the underbrush toward an open field. The sun there was 
uninterrupted by any growth like the forest environment we had just emerged from. It was a 
warm day. Still – with the long blades of grass drooping slightly, inviting the small flying insects 
to alight on them, only to suddenly buzz franticly the next second to a new blade. We paused in 
the center of the grassy field and I jumped to the ground in order to help her down to meet me.  
 With arms outstretched, I notice the fine linen of my white sleeves, ballooning out in the 
open air. An embroidered red tunic covers my chest and torso, leading to the brown hose 
beneath. I reach for her, and lift her gently as she drops down from the trusty dappled mare we



rode upon. Her face is fair, heart-shaped, unlike the hundreds of everyday faces seen among our 
people. Something here stands out. I can feel such strong emotion, as if the connection between 
us is palpable electricity. The charge draws us towards each other and we embrace. I kiss her, 
and somehow I know this is the first kiss we have shared. It is the finest hour of my life. I am 
falling in love with this woman. Never have I been this vulnerable, allowing a woman to take all 
of my strength. I surrender completely and she is mine. I am drowning in her. I look into her 
eyes, and they are the lightest blue, like the early morning light. 
 “Hold!” I screamed, as I bolted upright in bed. My stomach was tight, my chest pounding 
like a drum. I was sweating, even though it was cold in my room. What the hell was that? I 
hardly ever dreamed anything. I remember it all though. There was a girl with me on the horse, a 
forest, and then we stopped in the field. I helped her off the horse and kissed her. The weird thing 
was the clothes. I really felt like I was in a movie about old kings and stuff. It was like it was my 
life for real. I knew that girl! It was Sionna, but in a different place with old clothes on. What is 
happening? Did I insert these people from life into some kind of Wuthering Heights book? That 
must have been it. The whole thing was make-believe. It had to be make-believe. Didn’t it?



6 
 
 As it turns out, there are a lot of people (I mean writers and such), who have said a lot of 
things about beauty. I read this in the library one day last week, “Everything has beauty, but not 
everyone sees it.” Well, I don’t know about that. The pizza parlor aint so beautiful, and neither is 
taking care of Ma, or Nick either. Hell, Nick doesn’t have one beautiful thing about him as far as 
I’m concerned. One thing I do know though, is somebody said that beauty is only skin deep, and 
that is definitely not true. I have started to find that some people are beautiful inside as well as 
out. Sionna is one of those people. I could talk to her all day and then some. After I talk to her, I 
have to have another day just to think about what we talked about. I told her about my crazy 
dream. She just smiled and looked through me with those watery eyes. She didn’t think it was 
crazy though.  
 She said that some people think dreaming is real, and being awake is not. What the hell?  
 “Did you know that Buddhists consider everything around us to be a dream?” she said. 
 I said, “I don’t get that. I’m sitting in a chair, I’m breathing air, and I’m looking at you. 
How could all this be just fake?” 
 “Well, it’s not fake, it’s just not something that will last for more than the present 
moment we are experiencing it. That doesn’t mean that it’s not a chair. It just means that soon it 
won’t be a chair. Once it was a tree, now it’s a chair, and someday it will just be rotted and return 
to the earth, to maybe grow into a tree again and start all over. The cycle of life is ever-changing. 
We have to be prepared to change with it, to be willing to let go of things, and also accept things 
that happen to us, without grasping onto them.”



We continue to talk about this for a while. She said some cultures believe we receive 
messages from spiritual guides while sleeping, or can tell the future through dreams, or just 
manage our thoughts so that we don’t go nuts thinking about stuff day after day. Whatever 
dreams really are – or aren’t – I did feel better talking to her about this.  
 “Maybe you were dreaming about something from a past life” she said. 
Well, if that was a past life, I wish I could go back there. It was so beautiful, and 
peaceful. I liked being out in the open with the horse, and the girl – especially the girl. If that was 
me, was Sionna the girl in the dream? I really hoped so. Maybe that’s why we got along so well. 
Nobody ever wanted to talk to me about my dreams before. She made me feel like I belonged 
somewhere; like I really mattered. I wasn’t just a guy who make pizzas, or somebody that took 
care of my Ma, or somebody’s pesky little brother. For once I felt like I was important in some 
way. I just wasn’t sure what way yet. 
If people were measured by the beauty inside of them, instead of outside, Sionna would 
be a “10” for sure. I’m not saying that she’s not good looking either, because she is. I’m just 
saying the more you’re around her, the more beautiful she becomes. I started to think that being 
blind might not be so bad if I had someone like her around me to talk to. I didn’t even have too 
many thoughts yet about sex with her. I thought about it when I wasn’t around her, but when we 
did see each other, we got so busy talking, that it just wasn’t in my head, if you know what I 
mean. When we talked about something, I would go to the library and try to read about it, so I 
wouldn’t feel so dumb. The thing is, I started to really like reading about all sorts of stuff. 
Talking about dreams made me read about Sigmund Freud. He was this German guy who started 
the whole “psychotherapy” thing. He came up with the ego, and dream analysis. It seems like 
everything he talked about was sexual. He thought that dreams told us what was in our



subconscious, the stuff in our heads we don’t always know is there. If that’s true, then in my 
subconscious I want to ride a horse, live in olden times, and fall in love with a girl. Sounds good 
to me. 
 
 
     7 
 
 Sionna and I continued to meet on a regular basis. Most of the time, we just sat around 
and talked at the Java Hut, or walked in the park, or went to museums. Let's just say I hadn't 
spent much time hanging out in museums as a kid. Hell, I only went in one if there was a field 
trip or something I had to do in school. It got pretty interesting though. Seems to me that a lot of 
these old painters were crazier than shit. Either they were alcoholics, or committed suicide, or cut 
their ears off or something. Sionna said something like, "intelligence borders insanity" or 
something like that. I think I've never known anyone smart enough to be considered insane, just 
insane people who were also dumb. Which leads me to telling you about the weirdest thing I've 
ever done, so far. I could never tell anybody, because then I would be one of those insane people.  
 I found myself lying on a purple rectangle mat closing my eyes and thinking about 
breathing. I felt like the stupidest person on earth. The funny thing was, there were about twenty 
other people lying there doing the same thing I was. I don't know how she talked me into this 
one, but I tried yoga. She told me it was centuries old, and could help me calm my mind, 
increase my lung capacity, and help me stay young forever physically. Sounded like a miracle 
drug or something. I was wearing a t-shirt, and shorts, which, as it turns out, is not exactly the 
thing to wear to yoga. There is a lot of leaning upside down, spreading your legs apart, and this

