--- PAGE 46 ---
 “No.” she said calmly. “Why do you let other people bother you like that? You know 
they’re just kids, and there’s nothing funny about what we’re doing, so, just ignore them.” 
 “Well I know that logically, but it still pisses me off” I didn’t know how to describe my 
symptoms of inner rage. 
 “Well, I’ll tell you something. Only when we become masters of ourselves, can we really 
deal with the world. What I mean is, the world is full of stupid, violent, seemingly useless 
people. But you aren’t stupid, violent, or useless. You know more than they do. You can see that 
your feelings are not logical, and you can deal with moving on. You have a purpose. We have to 
live with all kinds of people that aren’t as advanced as we are spiritually.” 
 “Do you really think we are more advanced spiritually? How do you know they aren’t 
yet, but might become like Buddha or something?” 
 “So if they do become like Buddha, we should definitely leave them alone, so they can 
follow that path. I mean, if you think one of those boys is going to become the next spiritual 
master, then you should be glad you got a glimpse of what they used to be like!” She just started 
laughing, and so did I. Thinking about one of those numbskulls becoming enlightened made me 
laugh. 
 “You’re really something, you know that?” 
 “You’re really something too.” She looked up at me with her ocean eyes and I leaned 
down and kissed her. That kiss was like slow motion. It was like there was no one else around, 
and
--- PAGE 47 ---
 “That is one of our missions, I think.” She looked pensive. “We have to learn how to 
speak it to everyone, even strangers, and even people we don’t particularly like.” 
 “That’s going to be hard” I said. 
 “I know. That is the meaning of “loving kindness”. That is the ability to open our hearts 
and accept everyone, even those kids on the corner laughing at us. It might take my whole life, 
but I am bound and determined to find that inside of me and bring it out.” 
 “Let me know if you do, because if my girlfriend is loving everyone, I think I’m going to 
need a new one!” I started laughing. 
 “I could never love anyone like I love you.” That was it. That was what had not been 
said, and now it was said. I would remember the way she looked at me for the rest of my life. My 
girlfriend told me she loved me, and it was the most sincere statement I have ever heard. It really 
came from her heart. 
 “I could never love anyone the way I love you either.” We just smiled at each other and 
kept on walking. 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 48 ---
      4 
 
 
 
  Nick was laughing so hard, I thought he might fall off his couch. He had smoke 
sputtering out of the corner of his mouth, and his face was beet red as usual. At that moment I 
wondered why I had even taken the time to come over to his apartment. 
 “Come on, Bro. You haven’t been to my place for ages.” His argument finally persuaded 
me to ride over to his place and sit around with him and a couple old friends before heading to 
Joe’s to play pool and hassle the waitresses. This was the usual scene: Nick invites people over, 
Nick gets hammered, and Nick has an audience to tell his stories to. Boring. I’ve heard all this 
shit about a million times.  
 “Man,” Bob said holding the ceramic pipe and blowing smoke, “I don’t know about you 
guys, but I’m needin’ some new action. This girlfriend of mine used to be a freak, but she won’t 
put out anymore.” 
 “Same old story man, it never gets any better” Sammy said, taking a sip from the Bud 
can. “They just want to get you trapped, and then start spending your cash. Not to mention, they 
stop looking good after a while. It’s like they just start eating, never wear make-up, or do their 
hair, or any of that shit.” 
 “Fuck make-up man”, Bob said. “I like a natural looking girls, you know, big tits and 
bright eyes.” He just started sputtering smoke out. 
--- PAGE 49 ---
 Nick just laughed. “Hey, unless you know some Victoria Secret models around here, I’m 
just here to tell you there aint’ many good looking girls in Milwaukee, period. Aint’ that right 
Bro? Oh Wait, yea, never mind. He’s got the perfect girlfriend. She has him wrapped right now.” 
 “Oh wow dude, is that right?” Sammy said looking at me. “Are you being pussy 
whipped? “ He slapped his leg and stomped one foot on the floor. “Man, do you need a ‘get out 
of jail free’ card or something?” The three of them kept it up a few more minutes, while I just 
leaned back on the rocking chair and smiled. What a bunch of morons. 
 “You three wouldn’t recognize class and intelligence if it jumped up and bit your ass” I 
said finally. “Hell, Tyra Banks could ask you for your number, and you wouldn’t recognize an 
opportunity. Not that I’m saying Tyra Banks is fun to be around – I don’t know her.” 
 “Oh Dude! You have got to be kidding me” Sammy laughed, looking more stoned by the 
minute. “Tyra banks can move in, take over my bank account, and have my fucking CAR if she 
wants!” They all started laughing again. 
 Apparently, tonight was not the night to get into an intelligent conversation with these 
three knuckle heads. It’s not like any one of them would have understood Sionna in any way. It 
would be like trying to explain algebra to a bug; totally useless. It did piss me off though. I mean, 
Nick pretends to be all understanding when we are by ourselves, but then calls me out in front o
--- PAGE 50 ---
their beer bottles and tumbler glasses filled with mixed well drinks. A T.V. on a tall stack in the 
corner was inaudible with all the talking, laughing, and sounds of heavy rock music. This was 
the place where people like us came on Saturday nights. By people like us, I mean, the working 
poor and middle class. People who worked their asses off forty-plus hours a week for a measly 
paycheck, then spent a third of it drinking and shooting pool. I took a look around. I hadn’t been 
in here for probably at least six months. It seemed strange to me, as if I were an alien visiting the 
planet, amused by the antics of the population. Everyone appeared familiar, but the lifestyle was 
starting to confuse me. All of a sudden it felt so – dumb. Just dumb. These people felt dumb, like 
they were numb from the world. They didn’t want to question anything, or learn anything. They 
just enjoyed being miserable five days a week, happy for one, and regretful on Sunday from their 
hangovers and awkward sexual encounters. 
 Oh well, when in Rome, do as the Romans do. I had heard that, and it resonated with me 
right now. I took a deep breath, and stepped up to the bar beside Nick, who (of course) everyone 
scooched over for. Nick ordered a Jack and Coke, Sammy and Bob had BPR’s, and I had a Bud. 
I had never been bothered by smoke before, but tonight it was making my eyes water. A couple 
of the waitresses sashayed by wearing blue jeans and white blouses, Joe’s requirement for 
uniformed em
--- PAGE 51 ---
 “Hell yeah, I do.” Sammy responded with a dull watery look in his eyes. “I would pay 
you back Man if you could do it.”  
 “Of course I can do it” Nick said. “Hold on a second; that looks like Lindsey over there.” 
He pointed to the other room with the pool tables. Lindsey was his ex-girlfriend, and hopeful 
step-daughter for my Ma. She was a pretty girl with light blonde hair and brown eyes. Nick had 
dumped her like a sack of potatoes because she was getting too “into his personal shit.” It had 
been almost a year since then, but Nick hadn’t found anyone to seriously date. I thought he had 
taken a vow not to get that involved again. If there’s one thing Nick can’t stand, its people 
questioning him. Otherwise known as “getting to know someone”. There was no right way for a 
girl to treat Nick. Either she was too possessive, or she didn’t take care of him enough. It was a 
no-win situation as far as I could tell. I felt sorry for Lindsey after the break-up, but Nick is my 
guy, and you just have to be on his side, no matter what. 
 “Yep, that looks like her” Sammy said, still glancing at the waitress who was now 
serving a table in the corner.  
 “Who’s she with? Who’s that asshole?” Nick said. 
 “Why does it matter Bro? You broke up with her – remember?” I just gave him that 
questioning look, wondering why he even cared. 
 “I just keep tabs on her. You know what I mean? No one told me she was seeing 
anyone.” He started to get that look of craziness in his face. 
 “Drop 
--- PAGE 52 ---
 “Kiss my ass! Did I ask your opinion?” He got up and started walking into the next room. 
Bob and Sammy and I just gave each other that look; that “oh shit” look. They started following, 
and I reluctantly did too. I wish I could just duck out the door right now, but Nick would kick my 
ass tomorrow if I ran. 
 “What’s up Lindsey” Nick asked her as he approached. She was wearing a pink sweater 
and boots. Actually, she looked pretty hot - more hot than I wished she did at that particular 
moment. 
 “Oh, hi Nick. Not much” she looked up at the ceiling and shrugged her shoulders. The 
guy she was with came up next to her and put his arm around her in a protective sort of way. He 
had black wavy hair and dark eyes. I would have guessed him to be Spanish, or Italian, or 
something. His eyes started to close slightly, in a look of suspicious anger, his caterpillar 
eyebrows dipped down the midline of his face. “Who is this?” the mystery man said. 
 “Oh, just an old friend,” Lindsey said as nonchalantly as she could. People were starting 
to stare. The room got quieter as the pool players paused and leaned onto their cues wondering 
what would happen next.  
 “Where did you meet this one? I didn’t hear of you dating anybody. We keep our ears 
out, if you know what I mean.” 
 “Nick, why does it matter to you?” she said, annoyed at the prospect of explaining her 
personal relationship with this new guy. 
 “Nick – leave it alone.” I tried to step in front of him, but he pushed me to 
--- PAGE 53 ---
 Uh oh, that did it. Red fire came out of Nick’s eyes. His nostrils flared, and he had his 
fists clenched. Bob and Sammy just stood there with anticipation on their faces. They looked 
around at the rest of the people in the room, sizing up what could be their opponents. This had 
the look and feel of an all-out brawl. You could have heard a pin drop with the exception of the 
background music coming out of the corner speakers. An old AC-DC song blared through: 
 “…so join me for a drink boys….we gonna make a big noise…have a drink on me….have 
a drink on me…” 
 One of the waitresses walked backwards out of the room, and made a b-line for the back 
kitchen, probably to warn Joe that trouble was brewing. I had had enough of this crap. I was so 
tired of Nick always making a scene, causing trouble, and basically getting away with 
everything. Why should I stand by while he pounds the shit out of this guy he had never met 
before? 
 I stepped up closer than I had ever dared to face Nick when he was in a state of rage. I 
looked him in the eye, pleading with him. “Nick, Nick, listen – you don’t have any problem with 
this guy. You don’t even know this guy. Lindsey can see whoever she wants. Leave it man, just 
leave it.” 
 “Keep out of it! It’s none of your Goddamn business. You’re going to be next if you 
don’t get out of my face asshole.” Nick kept his eyes glued on Lindsey’s boyfriend. If looks 
could kill, the guy would have already been dead. I had seen this all before. Onc
--- PAGE 54 ---
 “Stop it! Stop it! You’re crazy as shit! No one cares about your ego Nick!” I was yelling 
at him, looking him in the face. I was terrified, not only of being hit, but being shunned; shunned 
as his brother. At that moment I knew what I was truly afraid of. I was afraid of being alone. I 
was afraid of having to take full responsibility for myself and trying to make my way through 
this life, without Nick to back me up. I was yelling at the world, I was yelling at myself. 
 It was like everything was in slow motion. I could see Nick’s creased brow, his mouth 
twisted into a weird shape, and his right fist slowly drawing back and moving toward my face. It 
was as if I had plenty of time to react, because time was standing still. There was no sound or 
movement from the other people in the pool room. My head swerved back, and I caught my 
backward moving motion onto my right foot. Simultaneously, Joe and his big bouncer came 
running into the room and they tried to restrain Nick. Then, Lindsey’s voice was all I heard “No! 
Stop!” Then life became a blur again. I do remember Lindsey grabbing the dark man and 
pushing him toward the door pleading with him to get out of there and take her home. I 
remember Nick turning on Joe and the bouncer and head-butting the bouncer so he could escape 
the hands twisted around his arms. I could hear Sammy and Bob yelling at the other guys, and 
trying to get Nick out of the bar. 
 And then all I remember was running. I was running like a bear
--- PAGE 55 ---
Sammy and Bob were, and how they were. She had never met any of them. She just stared at me, 
taking her time to think. 
 “Your brother tried to hit you.” 
 “Yes, he did.” 
 “No one does that, you know. I mean, no one who really cares about you.” 
 “He does care about me. I can’t explain Nick completely, but I’m pretty sure at this rate, 
you may never meet him. I don’t know if we’ll ever even talk to each other again” I said. 
 “Well” she said, “if he never did, you would be better off. But, I think he will. He is like 
a thorn in your side. He obviously has issues with his self-esteem. I think he is a controlling ass, 
and you are showing him that you don’t need him. You are the voice of reason, and he doesn’t 
understand reason.” 
 I just looked at her. She had a point. Nick was an ass, and he did have poor self-esteem, 
which I had never seen until this moment. 
 “I love Nick though, I mean, he’s my brother. He had always taken care of us – me and 
Ma. I can’t just ignore him. I’m going to have to talk to him sometime.” 
 “I know sweetie, but look at you. Look at all the progress you have made that he hasn’t.” 
Her eyes had a compassionate look, as she stroked the side of my face. “You have learned to use 
your brain. You have been to yoga, and meditation now for half a year. Your mind is starting to 
work differently. You are becoming a bravely compassionate being. You can’t let him intimidate 
you, or stop you from your purpose.” 
 “My purpose….what is my purpose?” I re
--- PAGE 56 ---
 “I don’t know.” She looked pensive. “I suppose everyone’s purpose is different. My 
thought is that we really won’t know until life is over.” 
 “Um, isn’t that a little too late?” I started laughing. I had been through the full range of 
emotions today, from scared shitless, to giddy. “I mean really, what good is it to find out the 
purpose of our lives when we’re dead? Assuming that we are able to think and somehow exist 
after we’re dead. I don’t know, I guess I’ve never thought about it much.” My amusement 
stopped, and now I just looked at her. There was a stillness between us as we both thought 
awhile. 
 Sionna smiled at me as she reached out to my face, cupping my jaw bones in her palms, 
in a motherly sort of way. “You’re exhausted. We can talk about this later. Let’s get some sleep. 
Why don’t you stay with me tonight?” 
 “I have to go check on Ma.” 
 “Don’t you think that is exactly where Nick will go? He is a violent, out-of-control 
person right now. If he finds you, he’s just as likely to kill you as he is to verbally assault you. I 
mean, you really don’t need that crap right now. You need rest. Your Ma is okay for one night. 
Please stop worrying.”  
 I thought for a moment. She was right. Actually, she was always right. Nick was crazy 
right now. I thought if I saw his face one more time tonight I would completely lose it. She sat 
down on the green suede sofa, and I lied down next to her. I rested my head in her lap, and she 
started to massage my head. It f
--- PAGE 57 ---
eyes as if she were about to cry. “Me too honey. Me too.” We lingered in that realization for a 
moment. “By the way – the purpose of your life is to find the true self within you, and to honor 
it. To be the best person you can while you’re here. That’s how I see it anyway.” 
 “I hope I can.” My eyes started to close, and I knew nothing else from this day. It was 
totally messed up, but in the end, it was epic. 
 The world was in black and white. I was the same man I had always been, but felt 
exhausted, as if I had just been in a three day battle and somehow survived. My boots were 
folded below my knees, stockings dirty, tunic smeared with mud and who knows what else. My 
head spun and my mouth was dry. I walked toward the lake, through the sand and into the reeds 
at the edge. I leaned down to cup the life-giving water into my hands to drink. 
 The wind began to howl, the water started moving, first rippling, then lapping in waves 
onto my leather boots. The limbs of nearby trees swayed, then bent as if a great force were upon 
them. From the middle of the lake she rose. It was a slow motion dance with wind and water 
swirling around her. I could see her face, long brown hair, and eyes of light blue. She raised her 
arms as if to direct nature, like a conductor directing a symphony. She appeared as an angel, 
with long blowing white fabric from her gown swirling around her. The long sleeves sliced 
through the water, and yet, she was dry. 
 The world suddenly had color. V
--- PAGE 58 ---
walked towards us. The sound of the footsteps echoed and shook the earth; the chains from the 
mace clanged and rattled. He was out for us, and I tried to step in front of her.  
 She spread out her arms with her sleeves blowing out, making her appear to be flying. 
Nick was being pushed back with an invisible force. The two forces fought against each other – 
good against evil – water against fire. His face was angry and wild because his weapon would 
not follow the command of his body. He started to shrink to a normal size. The wind stopped 
blowing, and Nick disappeared into thin air. She turned and smiled at me again. I felt total relief. 
I started to stroke her hair and kiss her face, suddenly becoming aware of the taste of her lips. 
They were real lips, it was real hair…. 
 Suddenly I bolted upright, almost slamming Sionna in the jaw with my head.  
 “What the?” I said, confused at the time and place I was in. 
 “Oh my gosh! What’s going on? We must have drifted off to sleep.” She started to rub 
the sleep out of her eyes. We were folded together on her couch, both disoriented. I glanced up at 
the kitchen clock to see that it was three a.m.  
 “I had the craziest dream. You were an angel, and came out of the water. You protected 
us from Nick with some kind of magical force!” 
 She started to giggle. “Well, that sounds about right.” She just smiled and closed her eyes 
sleepily. “Let’s go to bed and get some sleep. We’ve had an interesting day.” 
 “You can say that a
--- PAGE 59 ---
      5. 
 
 The next months seemed to drag on, with school, work, Ma, Sionna, and all of my 
homework pulling the last of my energy. I was doing well at school. It was like learning all over 
again how to construct paragraphs, create an argument, or just state my opinion on something I 
had read. I graduated from High School with average grades, never paying too much attention to 
anything I ever learned. I figured I would get a job and work, like all the other kids around me. I 
would be part of the working class, hopefully making enough money to someday buy a house 
and car. It took luck really. Around here, it wasn’t what you knew, it was who you knew.  
 One guy from my graduating class became the manager of one of the Milwaukee papers. 
He wasn’t an editor, but a human resource guy. They may have paid for him to go back to school 
for a degree. He started in the mailroom, and somehow wound up in charge of people. What a 
lucky break. All I had to look forward to was maybe becoming the manager of the pizza place. 
Now that I think about doing that, it cracks me up. There is so much opportunity for people that 
apply themselves (at least that’s what I keep hearing). I had to constantly re-evaluate who I once 
was, and who I was now. What I mean is, that I could see myself growing. I’m not really an 
emotional person, but once or twice I found myself almost at the point of tears. Whether this was 
in response to my personal growth, or just complete exhaustion, I don’t know
--- PAGE 60 ---
dreaming of the fulfillment we gave each other. I wanted more. Then I slammed back into reality 
and shuffled home to make sure that Ma was okay. Nick was completely avoiding us, and Ma 
was confused. She couldn’t figure out why he never came around. She started to see me as the 
leader of our little family. Maybe Nick was just a little bit too much like dad in his abandonment. 
Of course, I didn’t tell her why he was away. She had no idea of the bar scene, and the fact he 
tried to punch me out. It would have shocked her into a heart attack or something. I couldn’t bear 
to have her thinking badly of Nick, no matter how much he had tried to hurt me. When she asked 
me where he had been, I would cover for him, telling her he had a poker game, or was at the gym 
or something. She always believed me. 
 Consequently, Sionna came over quite a bit. Ma was definitely happy to have her around. 
Sionna was so kind and took the time to make Ma feel special. She would talk to her about her 
day, and her meals. She would cook for her sometimes, and Ma really appreciated that. I think 
she really got hooked when Sionna made this outrageous casserole with butternut squash, cheese, 
and crunchy nuts. It was something Ma had never had (me neither), and it tasted really good. 
Sionna wanted to make her healthy. She was as much a help to me, as to Ma. She made sure I 
filled the pill containers correctly, which was good, because half the time I was so tired I could 
have made mistakes. She ev
