--- PAGE 11 ---
“Do you have a library card?” she asked. 
“No, how do I get one of those?” 
She showed me this piece of paper and I wrote down my name and address. Then she 
gave me a “temporary” paper card. She said a plastic one would be mailed to me within the 
week. That was cool, cause I got the mail anyway. It was like I could get anything in here for 
free. Who needed school anyway when you could get the same thing for free in the library? What 
stupid shit spends his money on classes when everything is right here, in this building? 
 
 I had no idea what I wanted in this place, but I just started walking down the rows 
looking at all the books. For some reason I ended up in the “classic literature” area and saw all 
these books by Shakespeare, Dickens, Eliot, Dumas, and Wilde. There was so many I didn’t 
know which one to pick out, but I thought they were all important if they were in that section, so 
I just picked out “Wuthering Heights” by a lady named Emily Bronte. I checked out the book 
with the lady at the desk, who gave me a thin little smile, and then walked home in the cold.  
Shit, I missed the whole game. Just as well, Chicago won by a touchdown anyway. Ma 
was already in bed when I got there. Since there was nothing to do, I started reading that book. It 
was pretty weird at first, because it was about a place in England a long time ago. It was about a 
guy named Heathcliff and a girl named Catherine. So far, it was a little like a soap opera. There 
was a lot of people 
--- PAGE 12 ---
wearing old clothes, and riding horses and running through the outdoors all happy. I can’t 
remember if I was in this or not. I just got this feeling though that I would end up feeling for her 
just like Heathcliff did in the book. 
 
 
 
     4 
 
 The next day I woke up and Ma was at the kitchen table drinking her coffee. We sat there 
as usual just looking at each other with nothing to say really. I asked her what she did last night. 
Why didn’t she stay up till I got home? I tried to talk her into going for a walk. You would have 
thought I asked her to run a marathon or something. She gave me every excuse in the book. 
 “It’s so cold outside. I don’t have a nice coat to wear. Where are we going anyway?” It 
just went on and on and on. Finally, I just gave up. If Nick wants her to go outside so bad, then 
he can drag his ass over here and get her to go. 
 Of course, she probably would if Nick asked her. She listens to everything he says. He 
could ask her to swim across Lake Michigan, and she would probably try it for him. I swear 
sometimes, there’s no reason for me being born anyway, except to have somebody for Nick to 
boss around. One time, Nick told her he was getting serious about this girl he had. Like that was 
really going to happen. Anyways, Ma went so out of her way to smother this girl, it was so 
ridiculous. Having her over for steak dinners, inviting her for Thanksgiving, and trying to meet 
her parents – the whole deal. She was so deep in this shit that whe
--- PAGE 13 ---
she went haywire. She didn’t stop crying and sobbing for a week. I think she thinks she’s never 
having any grandkids. 
 The more I thought about that whole situation, the more pissed off I got, so I told Ma I 
was leaving for a little while. I would see her in a couple hours. When I got outside, I found the 
phone number Sionna gave me. I was shaking and wondering if she would even remember me at 
all. 
 “Hi.” 
“Hi, Sionna? This is the guy that got your number the other day outside of the pizzeria. 
Do you remember me?” 
 “Of course I do. How are you doing?” she asked. 
 “Fine, ummm, I was wondering if you want to go for that cup of coffee.” 
 “Absolutely.” She sounded so sure of herself, like she knew I was going to call at just 
that minute and had it all planned out. 
 We decided to meet downtown at a coffee shop called The Java Hut. I had seen this 
place, but never been in there. Mostly, because the people inside all looked like they were right 
out of a college magazine. Everybody carried around backpacks and textbooks. They sat around 
in groups talking about school and looking at their notes with each other, drinking coffee. 
Glasses sliding on and off of their heads as they made their points on different things they 
learned that day. It was just a little too cool for me, so I never stepped foot in the place – until 
now. 
 I walked in, and saw her near the wall in the back at a small table. She had a backpack 
too. What are we doing? Homework? I didn’t care though,
--- PAGE 14 ---
All I saw were those eyes, they were like a watery blue crayon. When I looked into them, I lost 
all track of time and forgot who I was and what I was doing. I decided, she really was beautiful. 
 I asked her if she ever went to school. Of course she did. She had a degree in English and 
loved to read and write stories. Turns out she knew a lot about history and a million other things. 
I felt like a complete dumbass. I was sure she never wanted to see me again.  
 “What are you reading right now?” she asked. 
 Thinking of the good luck I had actually going to the library last night, I answered, 
“Wuthering Heights. It’s the story of this guy and girl and how they grew apart but were really in 
love with each other.” 
 “Yea, I know. I read it.” 
 Duh, how stupid of me. Of course she read it.  
What happened over the next half hour, though, made me think about the book in ways I never 
could have imagined. She talked to me about symbols in the book: about ghosts, and double 
characters, and the moors. The environment of the book was like its people. They were wild and 
unpredictable and infertile. The love that Heathcliff has for Catherine never changes, but in the 
end that kind of love destroys him. A love that never changes will destroy you. It reminded me of 
the way Nick is; strong and unwavering, but somehow it seemed dumb. I wondered if it would 
destroy him in the end too. 
 Something inside of me was coming awake. It was something I never felt before. It was 
like I c
--- PAGE 15 ---
Actually, I guess I was getting smarter by being around her, because she had a way of teaching 
me things I never knew I really wanted to know. But, the more she talked, the better I felt. We 
made another date to go to dinner on Friday night. I couldn’t wait. As I walked away and down 
the street to the bus stop, I thought again about love that can end up killing you if you don’t let it 
go where it’s supposed to. Maybe that was Ma’s problem all along. Dad left, and Ma never 
moved on. It just ended up destroying her. Even if dad came back today, Ma would probably still 
forgive him. Forgive him for all the pain, the extra work, and lack of money. Forgive him for 
missing out on his kids growing up, the baseball games, and graduations. Forgive him for not 
being there to support her when times were tough, and she didn’t know what to do next. All she 
wants is that same guy, at that same time, doing that same thing he always did. I’m sure she 
wouldn’t care about any of the crap, she’d just be happy. 
 Well, I knew one thing – there aint no way I could ever forgive him. He is the lowest of 
the low. He left his whole family and made them raise themselves. He didn’t give two shits about 
us. Not to mention, it’s because he left that I’m in the place I am. No college, not a decent job, 
and above all, I have to listen to Nick. Let’s face it, Nick became my dad when I was eight. It’s a 
damn shame. 
 I would never do that. I don’t care if the woman I marry drives me freaking cra
--- PAGE 16 ---
practice being a good parent, the better the kids will be in the end. Maybe that’s why there’s so 
many shitty people in the world, cause nobody is practicing being a parent. 
 
 
      5 
 The sun is shining through the trees. Millions of specks of sunlight shine down on me and 
around me. The forest is thick and lush green foliage brushes against the brown mare I ride on. 
This is a deciduous forest from long ago. Moss grows thick on the north sides of the beautiful 
muscled bark on the oak and maple species. Varied woodland plants adorn the forest floor. 
Wood sorrel grows thickly under the softly treading hooves of the horse. Trillium offer up their 
creamy white and pink colors, and bleeding hearts show vibrant purples and pinks. The smell is 
intoxicating, but not as intoxicating as the smell of her neck. Her long brown hair hangs limply 
down to the small of her back. I am sitting very close behind her, holding on around her waist. 
Occasionally, I lean forward to place my face next to her neck in order to smell her distinct 
scent. It was like a mix of rose and warm grass.  
 We traveled slowly through the underbrush toward an open field. The sun there was 
uninterrupted by any growth like the forest environment we had just emerged from. It was a 
warm day. Still – with the long blades of grass drooping slightly, inviting the small flying insects 
to alight on them, only to suddenly buzz franticly the next second to a new blade. We paused in 
the center of the grassy 
--- PAGE 17 ---
rode upon. Her face is fair, heart-shaped, unlike the hundreds of everyday faces seen among our 
people. Something here stands out. I can feel such strong emotion, as if the connection between 
us is palpable electricity. The charge draws us towards each other and we embrace. I kiss her, 
and somehow I know this is the first kiss we have shared. It is the finest hour of my life. I am 
falling in love with this woman. Never have I been this vulnerable, allowing a woman to take all 
of my strength. I surrender completely and she is mine. I am drowning in her. I look into her 
eyes, and they are the lightest blue, like the early morning light. 
 “Hold!” I screamed, as I bolted upright in bed. My stomach was tight, my chest pounding 
like a drum. I was sweating, even though it was cold in my room. What the hell was that? I 
hardly ever dreamed anything. I remember it all though. There was a girl with me on the horse, a 
forest, and then we stopped in the field. I helped her off the horse and kissed her. The weird thing 
was the clothes. I really felt like I was in a movie about old kings and stuff. It was like it was my 
life for real. I knew that girl! It was Sionna, but in a different place with old clothes on. What is 
happening? Did I insert these people from life into some kind of Wuthering Heights book? That 
must have been it. The whole thing was make-believe. It had to be make-believe. Didn’t it? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 18 ---
 
      
6 
 
 As it turns out, there are a lot of people (I mean writers and such), who have said a lot of 
things about beauty. I read this in the library one day last week, “Everything has beauty, but not 
everyone sees it.” Well, I don’t know about that. The pizza parlor aint so beautiful, and neither is 
taking care of Ma, or Nick either. Hell, Nick doesn’t have one beautiful thing about him as far as 
I’m concerned. One thing I do know though, is somebody said that beauty is only skin deep, and 
that is definitely not true. I have started to find that some people are beautiful inside as well as 
out. Sionna is one of those people. I could talk to her all day and then some. After I talk to her, I 
have to have another day just to think about what we talked about. I told her about my crazy 
dream. She just smiled and looked through me with those watery eyes. She didn’t think it was 
crazy though.  
 She said that some people think dreaming is real, and being awake is not. What the hell?  
 “Did you know that Buddhists consider everything around us to be a dream?” she said. 
 I said, “I don’t get that. I’m sitting in a chair, I’m breathing air, and I’m looking at you. 
How could all this be just fake?” 
 “Well, it’s not fake, it’s just not something that will last for more than the present 
moment we are experiencing it. That doesn’t mean that it’s not a chair. It just means that soon it 
won’t be a chair. Once it was a tree, now it’s a chair, and someday it will just be r
--- PAGE 19 ---
 We continue to talk about this for a while. She said some cultures believe we receive 
messages from spiritual guides while sleeping, or can tell the future through dreams, or just 
manage our thoughts so that we don’t go nuts thinking about stuff day after day. Whatever 
dreams really are – or aren’t – I did feel better talking to her about this.  
 “Maybe you were dreaming about something from a past life” she said. 
Well, if that was a past life, I wish I could go back there. It was so beautiful, and 
peaceful. I liked being out in the open with the horse, and the girl – especially the girl. If that was 
me, was Sionna the girl in the dream? I really hoped so. Maybe that’s why we got along so well. 
Nobody ever wanted to talk to me about my dreams before. She made me feel like I belonged 
somewhere; like I really mattered. I wasn’t just a guy who make pizzas, or somebody that took 
care of my Ma, or somebody’s pesky little brother. For once I felt like I was important in some 
way. I just wasn’t sure what way yet. 
If people were measured by the beauty inside of them, instead of outside, Sionna would 
be a “10” for sure. I’m not saying that she’s not good looking either, because she is. I’m just 
saying the more you’re around her, the more beautiful she becomes. I started to think that being 
blind might not be so bad if I had someone like her around me to talk to. I didn’t even have too 
many thoughts yet about sex with her. I thought about it when I wasn’t around her, b
--- PAGE 20 ---
subconscious, the stuff in our heads we don’t always know is there. If that’s true, then in my 
subconscious I want to ride a horse, live in olden times, and fall in love with a girl. Sounds good 
to me. 
 
 
     7 
 
 Sionna and I continued to meet on a regular basis. Most of the time, we just sat around 
and talked at the Java Hut, or walked in the park, or went to museums. Let's just say I hadn't 
spent much time hanging out in museums as a kid. Hell, I only went in one if there was a field 
trip or something I had to do in school. It got pretty interesting though. Seems to me that a lot of 
these old painters were crazier than shit. Either they were alcoholics, or committed suicide, or cut 
their ears off or something. Sionna said something like, "intelligence borders insanity" or 
something like that. I think I've never known anyone smart enough to be considered insane, just 
insane people who were also dumb. Which leads me to telling you about the weirdest thing I've 
ever done, so far. I could never tell anybody, because then I would be one of those insane people.  
 I found myself lying on a purple rectangle mat closing my eyes and thinking about 
breathing. I felt like the stupidest person on earth. The funny thing was, there were about twenty 
other people lying there doing the same thing I was. I don't know how she talked me into this 
one, but I tried yoga. She told me it was centuries old, and could help me calm my mind, 
increase my lung capacity, and help me s
