--- PAGE 31 ---
 “That you are little brother” he hissed at me, and then suddenly stabbed the longest knife 
I have ever imagined into my chest. I couldn’t believe it. Nick had killed me – Nick had killed me. 
I woke up gasping for breath; my heart pounding in my chest. I was still at the hospital. Ma was 
dozing off in her bed. That was the weirdest thing ever. I still felt like it was real. Why would 
Nick want to kill me? Me? His little brother. I felt betrayed and so confused. It took me a good 
fifteen minutes to come out of it and tell myself it was only a dream. Still, for the rest of the day I 
had an awful feeling. It was the feeling of betrayal by my closest family member. That had to be 
the worst betrayal of all. 
 I didn’t have much time to think about this weird dream, because I was getting Ma all set 
up to come home. The nurses and Dr. Carson spent a lot of time with me, making sure I knew 
how important it was for Ma to stay on her blood pressure medications. She also had some pills 
called Nitro, that she could use in case she had chest pain. It didn’t sound like they were as 
worried about a heart attack as they were about her stroking out from her high blood pressure. 
She also had a little bit of what they call “dementia”, or as far as I can describe it, just old 
people’s brain. Sionna went with me to the drug store and we bought a plastic container labeled 
with all the days of the week, Sunday through Saturday. This way, we could put all of Ma’s pills 
for the week in
--- PAGE 32 ---
 Later that night, while Sionna went to her philosophy class, I got Ma all tucked in, 
explained to her the pill routine, and showed her the container. “See Ma, right here is every day 
of the week, and every day will have the pills in in you need. There’s even separations for 
morning and night” 
 “Oh my Lord, that looks a little overwhelming” she said eyeing the plastic blue container 
suspiciously. 
 “No worries Ma. I’m goin’ to be here to make sure everything is okay, and make sure 
you get the right pill at the right time.” 
 She looked up at me with those tired brown eyes of hers. “You’re such a good boy. You 
and Nick are like a God-send to me. What would I do without you two?” 
 I had to think to myself. “You two?” Like Nick was ever around anymore to take care of 
anything. That was a laugh. The only thing Nick did lately was criticize me for anything he could 
think of. Speak of the Devil, in walked Nick. His face was the usual beet red, eyes wild with 
some kind of inner rage. His hair all helter-skelter was framing his pox-marked face. I swear 
sometimes he looked like he came straight out of prison. Like he just broke loose and was 
looking for vengeance – a kind of vengeance you see in a war movie. 
 “What’s up little Bro? You got Ma all tucked in? Man, you shoulda been a nurse!” he 
laughed so loud I thought he would wake Ma up. 
 “Knock it off man. Somebody has to make sure she stays on track. Where have you 
been?” I sounded accusingly. 
 “Don’t start giving 
--- PAGE 33 ---
 “I know, I know, just sayin’, it’s eight o’clock at night Man. Ma’s been home for like 
four hours.” 
 “All right, look” said Nick, “I’m not giving you hell. Just what is the deal around here 
anyway? Are you going to keep her from strokin’ out, or what?” He settled himself down in the 
overstuffed brown chair, kicking his big booted feet onto the footstool.  
 “Well, that is what I’m tryin’ to do. Look – I got her meds all in the same spot, and told 
her I would help her keep track of everything. Check it out.” I handed him the blue medication 
container. 
 “Oh, holy shit! Aren’t you nurse Nancy! Well, well, how did you come up with this little 
idea anyway?” His smirk was starting to really piss me off, not to mention the way he said it. 
If he wasn’t so Goddamn big, I could of hauled off and clocked him in that smug face of his. 
 “If you must know, Sionna helped me figure it out. She’s really smart and good at that 
shit. You know I never could think things through.” 
 Mockingly Nick replied, “If you must know, if you must know. Whatever. This chick 
sure has you wrapped around her finger. I mean, if you must know.” 
 “Stop it Nick! You haven’t even met her. I don’t understand how you can’t like someone 
you don’t even know, Man. Give her a fuckin’ break!” I said, trying to keep my voice down, but 
practically spitting on him. 
 “Don’t you talk to me like that, you little bastard.” Nick spit back, suddenly standing up 
and looking like the giant red Viking that he was.  
--- PAGE 34 ---
 
 “You’re so Goddamn hateful. What the fuck got into you? Was Ma on crack or somethin’ 
when she was pregnant with you?” I started screaming. My fists were closed tight and I wanted 
to punch something. Anything. 
 Whack! Nicks hand slapped me across the head. My left ear was ringing, and I suddenly 
felt very sick. “Don’t you EVER talk that way about MY mother you little fuck.” He spun 
around and stomped out, slamming the door behind him. Christ, what just happened? I had never 
been in a screaming fight with Nick before. Hell, I never had the nerve to. It just came bubbling 
out of me like I had been holding it down forever. Bubbling out like a box of firecrackers 
exploding out of my mouth. It was okay anyway. Who needs Nick, really? Me and Ma and 
Sionna would be just fine without him. In that split second, I knew I never wanted Sionna to 
meet that prick. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 35 ---
 
     PART TWO 
 
      1. 
 
It was the most perfect spring day. We were at the tail-end of the school year with only a week 
before summer break. The lilac bushes were blooming at the back edge of the school property. I 
was almost out of fourth grade. Me and Bobby Swenson were laughing our asses off, folded over 
at the waist, grabbing our sides before they split out. Jennifer Bales and Sue Something-or-other 
were looking at us with stern faces and shaking their heads.  
 “You guys are in so much trouble when Mrs. Stark finds out you’re making fun of her” 
Jennifer said with her know-it-all voice. She was like a forty year old stuck in the body of a nine 
year old. Her brown braids ended halfway down her back with the flail of red bows that bounced 
off her when she walked. She and Sue walked toward the building, probably on the way to report 
our goofy behavior to Mrs. Stark. 
 “You HAVE to learn some responsibility!” I cried, barely able to spit the words out 
through the raucous laughter. 
 “No, YOU have to learn some responsibility!” Bobby spit out, his face red and dribble 
running out of his mouth from the uncontrolled giggling.  
 “Learn some responsibility, learn some responsibility!” we cried in unison, mocking Mrs. 
Stark’s earlier comment in the classroom directed towards us both. We had been sending notes 
under the desk to one another, putting pencil eraser tips up our noses, and acting like 
tyrannosaurus rex monsters coming to life. Generally the type of t
--- PAGE 36 ---
school year when we got tired of long division and trying to write paragraphs with three parts. It 
was total relief. Total uncontrollable joy bubbling up from the far reaches inside, telling the 
world “we’re almost free! Hee hee!” 
 Apparently Mrs. Stark didn’t see it that way. We had been getting on her bad side for the 
last week or so. She was at the end of her rope. Ma got a call from her the other night, and told 
me if I didn’t straighten out and “fly right” I would be punished. She would take my bike away 
for a week. Crap, I didn’t want that to happen. But, I just couldn’t help myself today. Everything 
Bobby and I saw, or heard, was absolutely hilarious. I saw Nick from the corner of my eye. He 
was walking toward us; hair in a devilish mess. “What are you two numbskulls doin’?” he asked 
looking around for a clue. 
 Bobby just looked at me nervously, seemingly muted by Nick’s presence. Nick was a big 
bad-assed sixth-grader. He was at the top of the totem pole in our school. Not only was he in the 
senior class, he was tall, and big, and highly respected for his bravery in every situation. Since 
Bobby wasn’t going to answer, I said, “Oh, just the usual crap from Mrs. Stark. She thinks we 
need to learn some responsibility”. The last two words came out slow with a muffled sputter 
before I burst into laughter again, my face red, and tears starting to form in the corners of my 
eyes. Nick slapped me across the shoulder. “Little Bro, you better start listening, man.
--- PAGE 37 ---
Mr. Pauls was the principal, and he sure wasn’t a “pal”. He was kind of a big prick. He didn’t 
like getting into it with arguing kids, and he really didn’t like getting into it with disrespectful 
kids and their parents. 
 “Um, sorry Mrs. Stark” Nick interrupted. “He didn’t mean anything by it. He and Bobby 
were just goofing around. You should see them around my house. It never ends. I’ll talk to him 
and Ma will talk to him. He’ll never act up in class again. I guarantee it.” 
 Mrs. Stark put her glasses on, tipping her head at just the right angle so she could get a 
good head-to-toe of Nick. Actually, he might have been just an inch taller than her. “Well, Nick, 
I know you’re a good student. It’s too bad your brother here doesn’t have the same level head as 
you. It’s been such a pleasure having you at the school. We will be sorry to see you go. I guess 
I’ll let it pass this time.” Then she turned to me, “YOU, young man, need to follow your 
brother’s example and start paying attention. And you, Bobby, your mother will be getting a little 
note from me also.” She turned on her heels like a Nazi in one of those old World War II movies, 
and marched back up to the school. 
 “Nick, um thanks man. You saved my skin” I said. Bobby just looked at him and said, 
“Yeah Nick. Thanks a lot. My mom would be so upset if Mr. Pauls called her.”  
Nick just smirked and stared at us with a look of warning.  
 “You two knock it off. That is the last time I’m getting involved in your st
--- PAGE 38 ---
was like he could just go around doin’ whatever he wanted, and everything would be okay. It 
was like he was magic or something.  
 Later that night, Nick came into my room and asked how the rest of the day went.  
 “Oh, it was okay. Thanks again for standing up to Mrs. Stark for me.” 
 “So what was the joke anyway?” he asked. 
 “She was telling us we needed to learn responsibility. But it just wasn’t that, it was the 
way she said it. It was just really funny at the time.” I was at a loss for words, because now it 
didn’t seem funny at all, when it had seemed hilarious earlier. 
 “You’re such a numbskull, man.” He reached over and mussed up the hair on the top of 
my head. “I’ll always take care of you. Don’t forget that.” 
 “I won’t Nick. I won’t” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 39 ---
      2. 
 
 I found myself staring out the front window of the pizza parlor. The grass was turning 
green, and the weather was getting warmer. That must have been what triggered the memory of 
Nick and me in grade school. I just sighed, a slight grin on my face.  He had always been the 
alpha dog of the family. Well, actually, he had always been the alpha dog in any group he had 
ever been a part of. I don’t think Sionna really got the full gist of this. She hadn’t met Nick yet. 
So far, I had managed to keep them apart. But I knew sooner or later, they would end up in the 
same place. They were both the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end – of me 
anyway. What I mean is, both of them completed me in some way. Just really different ways. He 
was the leader, the supporter, the pusher, I guess. She was the soft part of my life, my comfort, 
and inner strength. Without both of them, who would I be? Who would I be? That was the 
question I had to ask myself. 
 A couple months had gone by since my fight with Nick. He was now avoiding us like the 
plague. He can over to see Ma about once a week, but barely said anything to me now. If he did, 
it was something smartass, like “how’s that girlfriend of yours Bro? Hope you’re getting 
something from her, your nose is nice and brown.” He was always saying some stupid crap like 
that. I just ignored him for the most part. Actually, Nick wasn’t bothering me that much 
anymore. Since I had started meditation, and been doing it 
--- PAGE 40 ---
control where those emotions were going. It was like being my own monitor. It was pretty useful 
really.  
 I could see that a lot of what Nick once meant to me was kind of silly, in a way. He was 
not the all-powerful beast people cracked him up to be. He was not my best friend, or my biggest 
fear. Nick was just a person. I am just a person, and on and on and on. No one is more powerful 
than I am, or less powerful than I am. I guess we all have inner strength. We just need to figure 
out how to use it. Ma was doing okay. We had her medication down to a science now, with all 
the pills laid out for each day, and for the time of day she needed them. She was often confused, 
but able to remember what happened for short periods most of the time. The best part was, she 
really loved Sionna. She asked me when she was coming over, what she was going to cook 
(when she did), and told me how “nice” and “polite” she was. It made me happy inside. To 
actually feel like I was being valued for a decision that I had made, not that Nick made, but that I 
had made, felt awesome. 
 Nick came over to visit last night. He walked in with his big boots and brown suede 
jacket, threw his keys into the basket next to the front door, and bent down to kiss Ma. She 
peeled her eyes away from the T.V. long enough to kiss his cheek and ask how his work was. 
 “Oh, you know, it was okay I guess. Those assholes next to me in the line almost caught 
me in the goddamn drill press today. I told them to pu
--- PAGE 41 ---
 “So, what’s up with you?” he said, pressing his lips into a strange pursed curl. 
 “Ah, not much. Just working and thinking about going to school” I said. I was expecting 
a huge knee-slapping laugh from Nick, but he just stared at me silently contemplating what I had 
just said. 
 “Going to school? How the hell are you going to pay for that? And what for?” His look 
displayed an incomprehensible expression, as if he had just heard Ma was pregnant or 
something. 
 “Well, I decided that there’s a lot of good jobs out there, but I have to have a degree to do 
anything worth doing, so I’m going to the community college and getting a bachelor’s degree in 
business. Maybe I can manage a restaurant or someplace like that.” I waited for his arguments. 
 “How the hell will you pay for it? How the hell are you going to have time to watch Ma if 
your screwing around with those pencil-pushers?” His eyes looked like they were set on fire. 
 “Sionna told me I could qualify for a low-interest student loan. I checked it all out, and 
applied for it, and they gave me the money. I mean, really, community college isn’t that much 
compared to other places.” 
 Nick cut me short. “Whoa, whoa, whoa dude. You have really done it now. I can’t 
believe you are letting this chick tell you what to do. It’s not like she’s gonna be around to help 
pay this shit back! That’s all on your head man. I can tell you one thing, it sure ain’t gonna be me 
helping your sorry ass out when you finish – IF you fini
--- PAGE 42 ---
want to work in a pizza place my whole life. Second, I don’t do everything Sionna tells me, this 
was my idea. And lastly, it would really mean a lot to me if you could just step up and be on my 
side for once, you know? You are my brother, man.” I was trying not to lose my cool composure, 
because we really needed to work things out. I needed him to work with me on this. 
 “Be on your side? Be on your side?” he said with an elevating voice. 
 “Man, do you actually remember your own life? How many times have I saved your ass? 
I mean really, can you keep count?” 
 Ma was starting to notice there was something unusual going on. She looked up with a 
confused, creased forehead. She started nodding her head side to side, as if to say, “Please don’t 
argue boys.” Slowly, she returned her eyes back to the television screen and folded her hands in 
her lap. 
 “I know, Nick, I know. I’m not saying that. What I mean is, I really need my family to 
support me on this. It’s going to be really hard, and take a lot of time. I will be here for Ma. 
Classes aren’t all day. I have to be in and out of here. I’ll make sure she’s okay.” 
 Nick looked pensive. “Do you remember that time in high school when Donny Amstel 
started harassing you? He was pushing you in the locker room after gym class and calling here 
hanging up, and threatening to steal you bike? Do you remember all that?” 
 “Yeah, sure, I do remember that. You told me you would take care of it, and then, all of a 
sudden, he just 
--- PAGE 43 ---
my body in his front door, so he couldn’t close it. Oh God man, he looked like he was about to 
shit his pants.” Nick started giggling like a little kid. “Then – then, oh man. Then, I told him if he 
ever threatened you like that again he would be killed. I told him our family had mafia 
connections. And he believed me! He was so scared, I couldn’t believe he actually believed me. 
What a dumbass! It worked though, right?” He looked so proud of himself right then. 
 “It did work Nick, it did.” I had to snicker too. The thought of us being connected to the 
mafia was the craziest thing ever. We were about as far from Italian as you could get. I mean, if 
there was a Viking mafia organization, then maybe. I just smiled at him. “You are something 
else man.” 
 He hit me lightly on the arm. “You’re not just my brother man, you’re my best friend.” 
That completely caught me off guard. I hadn’t ever thought about it, but I guess we were pretty 
good friends. I guess I could consider Nick to be my best friend. All my friends from high school 
were getting married, and having kids. I was friends with some of the guys at work, but none of 
them were that great of friends. Nick and me, we had a history all right. I just smiled at him. 
 “Just remember this Bro, nothin’, I mean nothing is ever gonna come between us. You 
get me man? You get me? Not school, not Ma, and not this girl either. I mean, I get it. I get that 
she’s your girlfriend. But bro’s before ho’s. You know what I mean?”
--- PAGE 44 ---
      3 
 
 My first class was a college level English class. We were going to have to write a lot, and 
apparently read a lot too. It was all leading up to a long essay at the end of the semester. We had 
to present an argument, and support it with research and what-not. It had been over a decade 
since I was in a classroom. I thought I would be the oldest one there, but was shocked to look 
around and see quite a few middle aged people, even a grandma or two. This got my hopes up. 
Maybe I wouldn’t have as much trouble as these older folks, I mean, hell, at least I had been 
there closer than they had. We went to the library on campus and rummaged through the 
reference section, listened to the librarian talk about resources, and that kind of thing. It wasn’t 
so bad really. There were a few cute girls in there; just a few really. They were mostly younger 
than me. They weren’t as pretty as Sionna, though. But then when they opened their mouths – oh 
God! The stupid shit that came out was amazing. It was like they didn’t talk about anything but 
their clothes, their hair, nails, blah, blah, blah. I couldn’t believe the difference between them and 
Sionna. She was a rocket scientist compared to these chicks. 
 I had to get a computer to do all this work at home. Sionna hooked me up with this guy 
who was selling his, and I got him to come over and set it up in my bedroom. Ma was confused 
out of her mind. “What’s going on? What is that thing? Why do you need that?” The quest
--- PAGE 45 ---
job, I was getting very little sleep, and when I did sleep, I slept hard. I didn’t mind it though. 
Every day I woke up with a purpose, which was a lot different than the way I used to wake up. 
My purpose was taking care of Ma, learning, and loving Sionna. Me and her were getting to 
know each other better and better all the time. She helped me with my homework. It was like she 
actually enjoyed it, even though I knew she already learned this stuff. Her brain was like a steel 
trap; she remembered everything she ever learned. I wish I could become like that. She told me 
that learning was like meditating. You have to focus on one thing, and that thing only. If you did 
this, you would never forget. She told me the ancient Tibetans had a way of remembering things. 
They pretended to see a big library in their minds. Every time they learned a fact, they would 
walk over to the section in the library that it belonged in, and open a book labeled that thing, and 
store the fact into that book. Fascinating! I started to picture my mind’s library, and storing all 
the facts I learned into the correct book. So far, I didn’t have too many book, or sections of the 
library, for that matter, in actual use. But, someday, I hoped to have a library full of facts.  
 “What do you want to do today” Sionna asked as we were walking out of the apartment 
building. Ma had found a game show to watch, and we decided to get some fresh air. The sky 
was blue, and it was going to be a warm one. Some
