--- PAGE 16 ---
practice being a good parent, the better the kids will be in the end. Maybe that’s why there’s so 
many shitty people in the world, cause nobody is practicing being a parent. 
 
 
      5 
 The sun is shining through the trees. Millions of specks of sunlight shine down on me and 
around me. The forest is thick and lush green foliage brushes against the brown mare I ride on. 
This is a deciduous forest from long ago. Moss grows thick on the north sides of the beautiful 
muscled bark on the oak and maple species. Varied woodland plants adorn the forest floor. 
Wood sorrel grows thickly under the softly treading hooves of the horse. Trillium offer up their 
creamy white and pink colors, and bleeding hearts show vibrant purples and pinks. The smell is 
intoxicating, but not as intoxicating as the smell of her neck. Her long brown hair hangs limply 
down to the small of her back. I am sitting very close behind her, holding on around her waist. 
Occasionally, I lean forward to place my face next to her neck in order to smell her distinct 
scent. It was like a mix of rose and warm grass.  
 We traveled slowly through the underbrush toward an open field. The sun there was 
uninterrupted by any growth like the forest environment we had just emerged from. It was a 
warm day. Still – with the long blades of grass drooping slightly, inviting the small flying insects 
to alight on them, only to suddenly buzz franticly the next second to a new blade. We paused in 
the center of the grassy 
--- PAGE 17 ---
rode upon. Her face is fair, heart-shaped, unlike the hundreds of everyday faces seen among our 
people. Something here stands out. I can feel such strong emotion, as if the connection between 
us is palpable electricity. The charge draws us towards each other and we embrace. I kiss her, 
and somehow I know this is the first kiss we have shared. It is the finest hour of my life. I am 
falling in love with this woman. Never have I been this vulnerable, allowing a woman to take all 
of my strength. I surrender completely and she is mine. I am drowning in her. I look into her 
eyes, and they are the lightest blue, like the early morning light. 
 “Hold!” I screamed, as I bolted upright in bed. My stomach was tight, my chest pounding 
like a drum. I was sweating, even though it was cold in my room. What the hell was that? I 
hardly ever dreamed anything. I remember it all though. There was a girl with me on the horse, a 
forest, and then we stopped in the field. I helped her off the horse and kissed her. The weird thing 
was the clothes. I really felt like I was in a movie about old kings and stuff. It was like it was my 
life for real. I knew that girl! It was Sionna, but in a different place with old clothes on. What is 
happening? Did I insert these people from life into some kind of Wuthering Heights book? That 
must have been it. The whole thing was make-believe. It had to be make-believe. Didn’t it? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 18 ---
 
      
6 
 
 As it turns out, there are a lot of people (I mean writers and such), who have said a lot of 
things about beauty. I read this in the library one day last week, “Everything has beauty, but not 
everyone sees it.” Well, I don’t know about that. The pizza parlor aint so beautiful, and neither is 
taking care of Ma, or Nick either. Hell, Nick doesn’t have one beautiful thing about him as far as 
I’m concerned. One thing I do know though, is somebody said that beauty is only skin deep, and 
that is definitely not true. I have started to find that some people are beautiful inside as well as 
out. Sionna is one of those people. I could talk to her all day and then some. After I talk to her, I 
have to have another day just to think about what we talked about. I told her about my crazy 
dream. She just smiled and looked through me with those watery eyes. She didn’t think it was 
crazy though.  
 She said that some people think dreaming is real, and being awake is not. What the hell?  
 “Did you know that Buddhists consider everything around us to be a dream?” she said. 
 I said, “I don’t get that. I’m sitting in a chair, I’m breathing air, and I’m looking at you. 
How could all this be just fake?” 
 “Well, it’s not fake, it’s just not something that will last for more than the present 
moment we are experiencing it. That doesn’t mean that it’s not a chair. It just means that soon it 
won’t be a chair. Once it was a tree, now it’s a chair, and someday it will just be r
--- PAGE 19 ---
 We continue to talk about this for a while. She said some cultures believe we receive 
messages from spiritual guides while sleeping, or can tell the future through dreams, or just 
manage our thoughts so that we don’t go nuts thinking about stuff day after day. Whatever 
dreams really are – or aren’t – I did feel better talking to her about this.  
 “Maybe you were dreaming about something from a past life” she said. 
Well, if that was a past life, I wish I could go back there. It was so beautiful, and 
peaceful. I liked being out in the open with the horse, and the girl – especially the girl. If that was 
me, was Sionna the girl in the dream? I really hoped so. Maybe that’s why we got along so well. 
Nobody ever wanted to talk to me about my dreams before. She made me feel like I belonged 
somewhere; like I really mattered. I wasn’t just a guy who make pizzas, or somebody that took 
care of my Ma, or somebody’s pesky little brother. For once I felt like I was important in some 
way. I just wasn’t sure what way yet. 
If people were measured by the beauty inside of them, instead of outside, Sionna would 
be a “10” for sure. I’m not saying that she’s not good looking either, because she is. I’m just 
saying the more you’re around her, the more beautiful she becomes. I started to think that being 
blind might not be so bad if I had someone like her around me to talk to. I didn’t even have too 
many thoughts yet about sex with her. I thought about it when I wasn’t around her, b
--- PAGE 20 ---
subconscious, the stuff in our heads we don’t always know is there. If that’s true, then in my 
subconscious I want to ride a horse, live in olden times, and fall in love with a girl. Sounds good 
to me. 
 
 
     7 
 
 Sionna and I continued to meet on a regular basis. Most of the time, we just sat around 
and talked at the Java Hut, or walked in the park, or went to museums. Let's just say I hadn't 
spent much time hanging out in museums as a kid. Hell, I only went in one if there was a field 
trip or something I had to do in school. It got pretty interesting though. Seems to me that a lot of 
these old painters were crazier than shit. Either they were alcoholics, or committed suicide, or cut 
their ears off or something. Sionna said something like, "intelligence borders insanity" or 
something like that. I think I've never known anyone smart enough to be considered insane, just 
insane people who were also dumb. Which leads me to telling you about the weirdest thing I've 
ever done, so far. I could never tell anybody, because then I would be one of those insane people.  
 I found myself lying on a purple rectangle mat closing my eyes and thinking about 
breathing. I felt like the stupidest person on earth. The funny thing was, there were about twenty 
other people lying there doing the same thing I was. I don't know how she talked me into this 
one, but I tried yoga. She told me it was centuries old, and could help me calm my mind, 
increase my lung capacity, and help me s
