--- PAGE 21 ---
weird doggie position, were my shirt kept falling down over my face. I had to finally tuck the 
shirt into my pants so I could see what was going on. I thought yoga sounded pretty easy. You 
stand, you sit, you lay down - whatever. What I found out was this crap was hard. During it I felt 
completely out of breath all the time, dizzy half the time, and just plain out of shape. My groins 
felt like someone pulled me apart, just like a stretch Armstrong. My lower back was aching, and 
my shoulders hurt. I couldn't do all the push-up things, so I felt like a wimp. 
 Here's the weirdest thing of all though - after it was over, I felt so relaxed, like I just 
woke up after sleeping all night. And talk about calm, I wouldn't care if someone called me or 
Nick a big pussy right to our faces. I just wouldn't care at all. What's that about? I didn't feel 
violent, or mad, or really anything. Just calm. Not that I'm the meanest person anyway, but I 
usually would stand up for myself for cryin’ out loud.  
 "You were really great at that" Sionna said. 
 "Are you kidding me?" 
 "No, you caught on very quickly, and I have the feeling you liked it. You did like it, 
didn't you?" 
 "Um, yeah. Yeah! I did like it! I just felt so dumb. I don't know why." 
 "That's pretty common for the first few times. You'll get the hang of it, and then you'll 
understand the process", she said. 
 "What do you mean, the process?" 
 "Well, it's true what they say. Your practice is your practice. The only thin
--- PAGE 22 ---
 "That's why they call it 'practice', haha." 
 We both smiled at that one. I guess if all I'm doing is practicing, then I never have to be 
perfect. Also, I guess no one is ever "done".  I had to hurry up and go home to change for work. 
It was the best night of work ever. I can't explain it, but making pizzas didn't bother me. Cleaning 
up didn't bother me. The asshole customers didn't bother me. Nothing. I was just happy to be 
there, which I don't think has ever happened to me before, unless you count payday, when I was 
just happy to be getting a check. 
 
 
 
      8 
 
 Geez, Nick is pissed off. I get home and he's stomping around the place getting Ma all 
upset about something. Seems I haven't been around a lot, and he's mad at me. He gives me this 
look like he wants to kill me or something. I don't know what to say. I'm trying not to cringe, but 
he's so mad.  
 “What’s going on Nick?” I ask, trying to keep as calm as possible. I don’t want to look 
afraid in front of him. It’s just not cool. 
 “Ma missed her doctor’s appointment yesterday, you ass. Where the hell were you? 
Don’t you remember your responsibilities around here? Now we have to wait two more weeks 
because they can’t fit her in. What were you doing yesterday that was so important anyway?” 
His lips were in a tight line, and his face was getting red. I could see him clenching his fists, 
moving them in and out. 
--- PAGE 23 ---
 “I totally forgot. I’m sorry, I was with someone” I said. 
 “With someone? What the hell is that? With who?” Nick was trying not to lose it 
completely, and Ma just sat in her chair looking at us like nothing was up. 
 “I met a girl, and we had a couple dates. That’s all.” 
 Nick just stared at me with those black eyes and fire coming out the top of his head. “Oh, 
great. A girl. That’s worth all this. Don’t you think Ma deserves better than that? Try looking at 
your priorities Bro, you just might learn something.” 
 “I said I was sorry!” I was trying to explain, but he just turned around and walked out, 
slamming the door in my face. 
 That’s all I need. Nick mad at me. What a mess this was. I would have to talk to him 
soon, because I didn’t know when I would have to get Ma to the doctor now. I thought maybe 
tomorrow or the next day I would call him and see if he would even speak to me. I hardly ever 
get into it with Nick. I just don’t like arguing with people – especially Nick. He’s responsible 
and everything, but you just don’t know what he is going to do. 
 One time, back when he was in high school, I remember him getting so pissed off at this 
one kid named Steve. I think Steve said something mean to Nick’s girlfriend, and she came to 
him crying about it. Nick was so mad. He went over to that kid’s house in the middle of the 
night, took a can of lighter fluid, and sprayed it around his front yard a little bit, then he set that 
crap on fire! I couldn’t believe it
--- PAGE 24 ---
herself together so well. He wouldn’t even understand her, and she definitely might be afraid of 
him, I know I would if I was a girl. 
 In my mind I was trying to figure out how I could make all the people in my life fit 
together. Ma, Nick, Sionna; they are all so different. Each one needs some special thing, some 
special care. Ma needs me. She needs me to take her places, make sure she gets medicine and her 
pills. She can’t even be trusted to sleep alone. Nick needs me because he needs me to take care 
of Ma. Sionna needs me. Sionna needs me? Where did I get that one? Maybe I was just hoping 
she needs me, without really knowing. It’s true she tells me stuff that makes me feel that way. 
She says I give her “insight”. Not sure how I do that. The other day we were talking about trees 
and how they change color in the fall. She told me the sugars get caught in the leaves. It’s like 
the trees are shutting down for the winter. The sugars get caught in the leaves and it makes them 
turn spectacular colors. I said something like, “Sometimes when people get caught in bad 
situations, they change into something better – just like leaves.”  She said that was beautiful. I 
never had anyone tell me that something I said was beautiful before. 
 Come to think of it, I didn’t remember Ma or Dad or Nick ever telling me anything too 
great. Ma would say that I was helpful around the house. I was her “little helper” way back 
when. I didn’t mind. I figured Ma needed all the help she cou
--- PAGE 25 ---
 “You have to stop worrying about owning a car. I have one and you live close enough to 
work to ride the bike.” He was always saying crap like that.  
I don’t know. Someday I swear I’m gonna have a better job, a house of my own, a car, and 
hopefully a girl just like Sionna. I have to get out of here. I’m going to the library. 
 
 
 
     9 
 
 I ended up in a section of the library with exercise books, and there in front of me were 
lots of book on yoga, so I picked one out. Next to this I came across a section on world religion. I 
had never thought too much about religion, but my mind drifted back to a couple conversations 
Sionna and I had about Buddhist thinking, so I checked out one of those too. She wanted me to 
keep going to yoga with her. I have to tell you I was happy to do it. It felt weird at first, like my 
body was made of metal pipes and everyone else’s was made of bendable pipe cleaners, but hey, 
that’s okay. She said we all start out stiff and the more you go, the more bendable you become. 
We’ll see about that I guess. 
 I started to read the book about Buddhism. It made me stop and think. This part I read 
was about attachment, and how attaching ourselves to other people or things will make us 
miserable and cause suffering. The problem is that we are all looking for happiness, and the book 
says we look for happiness in the outside world, instead of realizing that the way we think about 
things can make us happy. People start wishing for more money and 
--- PAGE 26 ---
they want, and that leads to never-ending searching for more stuff, or “happiness”. The point is 
that all things are really one thing. It says that we are not separate from all other things – there is 
no separation to begin with, so we can end our quest for things outside of us, because things are 
all inside of us. I was trying to understand this. It said that meditating on the present moment is 
the best way to come to this “realization”. It said that Buddhism is about practicing these 
thoughts, not about just believing something, but really “experiencing” it. It said that life is 
suffering, and the cause of suffering is the search for things. Once we have things, they change, 
which leads to more suffering. It did say there was hope though. The hope was that through 
meditation and changing our minds, we can release ourselves from suffering, because we 
become enlightened and live only for the present moment. That was really cool. I never thought 
about things like this before. I had to talk to Sionna about it. 
 I called her up and told her I wished she would finally come over to my place, and even 
meet my Ma. She wasn’t really surprised, just a little hesitant. She said, “Are you sure? It’s kind 
of a big deal to meet your mother.” 
 “Hell, she probably won’t even remember meeting you when she wakes up the next 
morning. She’s so forgetful now” I responded. 
 We talked a little more. 
 “What I really need to talk to you about is some stuff I read in a book about Bud
--- PAGE 27 ---
before. I wanted to feel how I felt when I was with her – fresh, new, and looking forward to the 
future. I suddenly felt that I was growing up or something. I was starting to feel like a real 
person. I mean, it’s not like I wasn’t a real person. That would be dumb to think. But, a person 
by myself - without Nick, without Ma, without my job and apartment and belongings. It was just 
me – a person by myself. 
 “You’ve already tried it silly”, she said. 
  “What are you talking about?” 
 “You are meditating at the end of every yoga practice. You know, when we just lie there 
at the end – in Savasana, or corpse pose.” 
 She was right, of course. At the end of every yoga class, we have to just lie there and 
close our eyes. Your body is so tired of moving and stretching, it’s like a huge relief to do it. 
Your brain thinks of all kinds of stuff, but then, there’s just peace. Now I knew that I could do 
this at home. I could sit in a chair, or lay on my bed, or on the floor and just “zone out”. I was 
ready to zone out. 
 When I hung up the phone, I went out to the living room to sit with Ma. She was 
watching one of her crazy game shows.  
 “How’s it goin’ Ma?” I said. 
 “What? Oh, it’s you.” She had this funny confused look to her, almost like she didn’t 
know me or something. 
 “Are you okay Ma?” I started to get worried. 
 “Oh, I don’t know. It just feels like my heart is going to jump out of my chest! It’s so 
strange, the feeling I have right now. I’m a little dizzy too.” 
--- PAGE 28 ---
 I didn’t like the sound of that. I decided to call Dr. Carson. He had been seeing Ma for the 
last ten years or so. The nurse told me I should bring her in that afternoon. That was just great. I 
was going to have to call in sick for work, so I could get Ma to the doctor. Nick wouldn’t be out 
of work for a while, and we had to ride the bus about three miles to the office. Whatever. I get so 
sick of doing this shit. I didn’t sign up to be a nurse, but it sure feels like I am. 
 When we got to the doctor’s office, I sat in a chair by the window and stared outside. The 
sky was grey, with clouds hanging low. There were people walking down the street, and the 
sound of a siren somewhere off in the distance. All of a sudden the nurse called my name. I 
almost jumped out of my chair. I thing I really did zone out there for a minute. I followed her 
back to one of the room down the hallway. I walked in and Dr. Carson came toward me. 
 “Hello, I’m Dr. Carson. I think I may have met you before. You’re the younger son, 
right?” 
 “Yeah, that’s right. Uh, how’s she doin’ Doc?” 
 “Well, that’s what I wanted to discuss with you. Your mother is fine. She is settled in 
another room. The thing is, I want to talk to you about her blood pressure.” 
 “Her blood pressure? What’s the matter with it? She’s been takin’ her pills. I know it, I 
make sure she takes them religiously.” 
 The doctor looked me straight in the eye, with a very serious look. Then he says, “Your 
mother’s blood pressure
--- PAGE 29 ---
 “Whoa man. I can’t believe this. Are you sure it’s that bad?” I said. This was the last 
thing I expected, or hell, needed, today. That’s it, I was going to have to call Nick to leave work 
and pick us up. 
 “Your mother has been confused, is that right? And she also experienced chest pressure 
this afternoon?” He was starting to right stuff down on a paper pad in front of him. 
 “Yeah, that’s right. She hasn’t been acting to normal lately.” I hated to tell him the 
hundreds of times she didn’t act normal. I forgot what it was like for her to act normal anyway. 
I thought of Ma and all the years I had known her. She was always quiet, but when she talked to 
us, she always had something to say that really made sense. She was, as far as I could remember, 
the most reasonable member of the family. But now, now she rambles on about shit that no one 
cares about, people that are dead, and stuff that happened a long time ago, like it just happened 
yesterday. She was definitely off her rocker, and we had to get her back on.  
 I talked to the doctor some more, called Nick (who was pissed, of course), and arranged 
to take her into the emergency room. Dr. Carson called the hospital and told them she was 
coming. Nick shows up and asks, “What the hell is this all about now?” and we explained the 
situation. Ma didn’t seem too concerned. She did keep holding onto her chest and saying that she 
heard ringing in her ears. “Someone must be talking about me.” She said. That’s right Ma, w
--- PAGE 30 ---
10 
 
 It turned out they only kept Ma in the hospital for three days. Nick tried to come when he 
was off work, but I was there pretty much all of the time, and went to work in the afternoon. 
Sionna met me at the hospital one day for lunch and we walked outside and around the 
neighborhood. It did my mind a load of good to get out of that place. Hospitals are so depressing. 
When I saw Sionna though, my heart did a little dance in my chest. Her eyes sparkled like 
diamonds. I know that sounds really queer, but it’s true. Her eyes did look like light blue 
diamonds. She made me feel excited and calm all at the same time. Excited because I couldn’t 
wait to see her again when she left. Calm because she had this way of talking to me that made 
me feel really special – like I was the only guy in the world she wanted to talk to. That never 
happened to me before. All this was new, and I loved it. Actually, I think I loved her, I just 
hadn’t told her yet.  
 I fell asleep in the chair in Ma’s room after Sionna left on the second day Ma was there.  
In the dream I was a soldier of some sort. I just remember there was total chaos around me. 
People were yelling and screaming. Blood was on the ground. Blades of shining steel were being 
thrust around and into other men. I felt exhausted and sad. I had just killed a man and was 
standing over his body. He tried to talk, but the only word that came out was “Save her” and 
blood bubbled out of his mouth. I was confused and trying to u
