--- PAGE 41 ---
 “So, what’s up with you?” he said, pressing his lips into a strange pursed curl. 
 “Ah, not much. Just working and thinking about going to school” I said. I was expecting 
a huge knee-slapping laugh from Nick, but he just stared at me silently contemplating what I had 
just said. 
 “Going to school? How the hell are you going to pay for that? And what for?” His look 
displayed an incomprehensible expression, as if he had just heard Ma was pregnant or 
something. 
 “Well, I decided that there’s a lot of good jobs out there, but I have to have a degree to do 
anything worth doing, so I’m going to the community college and getting a bachelor’s degree in 
business. Maybe I can manage a restaurant or someplace like that.” I waited for his arguments. 
 “How the hell will you pay for it? How the hell are you going to have time to watch Ma if 
your screwing around with those pencil-pushers?” His eyes looked like they were set on fire. 
 “Sionna told me I could qualify for a low-interest student loan. I checked it all out, and 
applied for it, and they gave me the money. I mean, really, community college isn’t that much 
compared to other places.” 
 Nick cut me short. “Whoa, whoa, whoa dude. You have really done it now. I can’t 
believe you are letting this chick tell you what to do. It’s not like she’s gonna be around to help 
pay this shit back! That’s all on your head man. I can tell you one thing, it sure ain’t gonna be me 
helping your sorry ass out when you finish – IF you fini
--- PAGE 42 ---
want to work in a pizza place my whole life. Second, I don’t do everything Sionna tells me, this 
was my idea. And lastly, it would really mean a lot to me if you could just step up and be on my 
side for once, you know? You are my brother, man.” I was trying not to lose my cool composure, 
because we really needed to work things out. I needed him to work with me on this. 
 “Be on your side? Be on your side?” he said with an elevating voice. 
 “Man, do you actually remember your own life? How many times have I saved your ass? 
I mean really, can you keep count?” 
 Ma was starting to notice there was something unusual going on. She looked up with a 
confused, creased forehead. She started nodding her head side to side, as if to say, “Please don’t 
argue boys.” Slowly, she returned her eyes back to the television screen and folded her hands in 
her lap. 
 “I know, Nick, I know. I’m not saying that. What I mean is, I really need my family to 
support me on this. It’s going to be really hard, and take a lot of time. I will be here for Ma. 
Classes aren’t all day. I have to be in and out of here. I’ll make sure she’s okay.” 
 Nick looked pensive. “Do you remember that time in high school when Donny Amstel 
started harassing you? He was pushing you in the locker room after gym class and calling here 
hanging up, and threatening to steal you bike? Do you remember all that?” 
 “Yeah, sure, I do remember that. You told me you would take care of it, and then, all of a 
sudden, he just 
--- PAGE 43 ---
my body in his front door, so he couldn’t close it. Oh God man, he looked like he was about to 
shit his pants.” Nick started giggling like a little kid. “Then – then, oh man. Then, I told him if he 
ever threatened you like that again he would be killed. I told him our family had mafia 
connections. And he believed me! He was so scared, I couldn’t believe he actually believed me. 
What a dumbass! It worked though, right?” He looked so proud of himself right then. 
 “It did work Nick, it did.” I had to snicker too. The thought of us being connected to the 
mafia was the craziest thing ever. We were about as far from Italian as you could get. I mean, if 
there was a Viking mafia organization, then maybe. I just smiled at him. “You are something 
else man.” 
 He hit me lightly on the arm. “You’re not just my brother man, you’re my best friend.” 
That completely caught me off guard. I hadn’t ever thought about it, but I guess we were pretty 
good friends. I guess I could consider Nick to be my best friend. All my friends from high school 
were getting married, and having kids. I was friends with some of the guys at work, but none of 
them were that great of friends. Nick and me, we had a history all right. I just smiled at him. 
 “Just remember this Bro, nothin’, I mean nothing is ever gonna come between us. You 
get me man? You get me? Not school, not Ma, and not this girl either. I mean, I get it. I get that 
she’s your girlfriend. But bro’s before ho’s. You know what I mean?”
--- PAGE 44 ---
      3 
 
 My first class was a college level English class. We were going to have to write a lot, and 
apparently read a lot too. It was all leading up to a long essay at the end of the semester. We had 
to present an argument, and support it with research and what-not. It had been over a decade 
since I was in a classroom. I thought I would be the oldest one there, but was shocked to look 
around and see quite a few middle aged people, even a grandma or two. This got my hopes up. 
Maybe I wouldn’t have as much trouble as these older folks, I mean, hell, at least I had been 
there closer than they had. We went to the library on campus and rummaged through the 
reference section, listened to the librarian talk about resources, and that kind of thing. It wasn’t 
so bad really. There were a few cute girls in there; just a few really. They were mostly younger 
than me. They weren’t as pretty as Sionna, though. But then when they opened their mouths – oh 
God! The stupid shit that came out was amazing. It was like they didn’t talk about anything but 
their clothes, their hair, nails, blah, blah, blah. I couldn’t believe the difference between them and 
Sionna. She was a rocket scientist compared to these chicks. 
 I had to get a computer to do all this work at home. Sionna hooked me up with this guy 
who was selling his, and I got him to come over and set it up in my bedroom. Ma was confused 
out of her mind. “What’s going on? What is that thing? Why do you need that?” The quest
--- PAGE 45 ---
job, I was getting very little sleep, and when I did sleep, I slept hard. I didn’t mind it though. 
Every day I woke up with a purpose, which was a lot different than the way I used to wake up. 
My purpose was taking care of Ma, learning, and loving Sionna. Me and her were getting to 
know each other better and better all the time. She helped me with my homework. It was like she 
actually enjoyed it, even though I knew she already learned this stuff. Her brain was like a steel 
trap; she remembered everything she ever learned. I wish I could become like that. She told me 
that learning was like meditating. You have to focus on one thing, and that thing only. If you did 
this, you would never forget. She told me the ancient Tibetans had a way of remembering things. 
They pretended to see a big library in their minds. Every time they learned a fact, they would 
walk over to the section in the library that it belonged in, and open a book labeled that thing, and 
store the fact into that book. Fascinating! I started to picture my mind’s library, and storing all 
the facts I learned into the correct book. So far, I didn’t have too many book, or sections of the 
library, for that matter, in actual use. But, someday, I hoped to have a library full of facts.  
 “What do you want to do today” Sionna asked as we were walking out of the apartment 
building. Ma had found a game show to watch, and we decided to get some fresh air. The sky 
was blue, and it was going to be a warm one. Some
--- PAGE 46 ---
 “No.” she said calmly. “Why do you let other people bother you like that? You know 
they’re just kids, and there’s nothing funny about what we’re doing, so, just ignore them.” 
 “Well I know that logically, but it still pisses me off” I didn’t know how to describe my 
symptoms of inner rage. 
 “Well, I’ll tell you something. Only when we become masters of ourselves, can we really 
deal with the world. What I mean is, the world is full of stupid, violent, seemingly useless 
people. But you aren’t stupid, violent, or useless. You know more than they do. You can see that 
your feelings are not logical, and you can deal with moving on. You have a purpose. We have to 
live with all kinds of people that aren’t as advanced as we are spiritually.” 
 “Do you really think we are more advanced spiritually? How do you know they aren’t 
yet, but might become like Buddha or something?” 
 “So if they do become like Buddha, we should definitely leave them alone, so they can 
follow that path. I mean, if you think one of those boys is going to become the next spiritual 
master, then you should be glad you got a glimpse of what they used to be like!” She just started 
laughing, and so did I. Thinking about one of those numbskulls becoming enlightened made me 
laugh. 
 “You’re really something, you know that?” 
 “You’re really something too.” She looked up at me with her ocean eyes and I leaned 
down and kissed her. That kiss was like slow motion. It was like there was no one else around, 
and
--- PAGE 47 ---
 “That is one of our missions, I think.” She looked pensive. “We have to learn how to 
speak it to everyone, even strangers, and even people we don’t particularly like.” 
 “That’s going to be hard” I said. 
 “I know. That is the meaning of “loving kindness”. That is the ability to open our hearts 
and accept everyone, even those kids on the corner laughing at us. It might take my whole life, 
but I am bound and determined to find that inside of me and bring it out.” 
 “Let me know if you do, because if my girlfriend is loving everyone, I think I’m going to 
need a new one!” I started laughing. 
 “I could never love anyone like I love you.” That was it. That was what had not been 
said, and now it was said. I would remember the way she looked at me for the rest of my life. My 
girlfriend told me she loved me, and it was the most sincere statement I have ever heard. It really 
came from her heart. 
 “I could never love anyone the way I love you either.” We just smiled at each other and 
kept on walking. 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 48 ---
      4 
 
 
 
  Nick was laughing so hard, I thought he might fall off his couch. He had smoke 
sputtering out of the corner of his mouth, and his face was beet red as usual. At that moment I 
wondered why I had even taken the time to come over to his apartment. 
 “Come on, Bro. You haven’t been to my place for ages.” His argument finally persuaded 
me to ride over to his place and sit around with him and a couple old friends before heading to 
Joe’s to play pool and hassle the waitresses. This was the usual scene: Nick invites people over, 
Nick gets hammered, and Nick has an audience to tell his stories to. Boring. I’ve heard all this 
shit about a million times.  
 “Man,” Bob said holding the ceramic pipe and blowing smoke, “I don’t know about you 
guys, but I’m needin’ some new action. This girlfriend of mine used to be a freak, but she won’t 
put out anymore.” 
 “Same old story man, it never gets any better” Sammy said, taking a sip from the Bud 
can. “They just want to get you trapped, and then start spending your cash. Not to mention, they 
stop looking good after a while. It’s like they just start eating, never wear make-up, or do their 
hair, or any of that shit.” 
 “Fuck make-up man”, Bob said. “I like a natural looking girls, you know, big tits and 
bright eyes.” He just started sputtering smoke out. 
--- PAGE 49 ---
 Nick just laughed. “Hey, unless you know some Victoria Secret models around here, I’m 
just here to tell you there aint’ many good looking girls in Milwaukee, period. Aint’ that right 
Bro? Oh Wait, yea, never mind. He’s got the perfect girlfriend. She has him wrapped right now.” 
 “Oh wow dude, is that right?” Sammy said looking at me. “Are you being pussy 
whipped? “ He slapped his leg and stomped one foot on the floor. “Man, do you need a ‘get out 
of jail free’ card or something?” The three of them kept it up a few more minutes, while I just 
leaned back on the rocking chair and smiled. What a bunch of morons. 
 “You three wouldn’t recognize class and intelligence if it jumped up and bit your ass” I 
said finally. “Hell, Tyra Banks could ask you for your number, and you wouldn’t recognize an 
opportunity. Not that I’m saying Tyra Banks is fun to be around – I don’t know her.” 
 “Oh Dude! You have got to be kidding me” Sammy laughed, looking more stoned by the 
minute. “Tyra banks can move in, take over my bank account, and have my fucking CAR if she 
wants!” They all started laughing again. 
 Apparently, tonight was not the night to get into an intelligent conversation with these 
three knuckle heads. It’s not like any one of them would have understood Sionna in any way. It 
would be like trying to explain algebra to a bug; totally useless. It did piss me off though. I mean, 
Nick pretends to be all understanding when we are by ourselves, but then calls me out in front o
--- PAGE 50 ---
their beer bottles and tumbler glasses filled with mixed well drinks. A T.V. on a tall stack in the 
corner was inaudible with all the talking, laughing, and sounds of heavy rock music. This was 
the place where people like us came on Saturday nights. By people like us, I mean, the working 
poor and middle class. People who worked their asses off forty-plus hours a week for a measly 
paycheck, then spent a third of it drinking and shooting pool. I took a look around. I hadn’t been 
in here for probably at least six months. It seemed strange to me, as if I were an alien visiting the 
planet, amused by the antics of the population. Everyone appeared familiar, but the lifestyle was 
starting to confuse me. All of a sudden it felt so – dumb. Just dumb. These people felt dumb, like 
they were numb from the world. They didn’t want to question anything, or learn anything. They 
just enjoyed being miserable five days a week, happy for one, and regretful on Sunday from their 
hangovers and awkward sexual encounters. 
 Oh well, when in Rome, do as the Romans do. I had heard that, and it resonated with me 
right now. I took a deep breath, and stepped up to the bar beside Nick, who (of course) everyone 
scooched over for. Nick ordered a Jack and Coke, Sammy and Bob had BPR’s, and I had a Bud. 
I had never been bothered by smoke before, but tonight it was making my eyes water. A couple 
of the waitresses sashayed by wearing blue jeans and white blouses, Joe’s requirement for 
uniformed em
--- PAGE 51 ---
 “Hell yeah, I do.” Sammy responded with a dull watery look in his eyes. “I would pay 
you back Man if you could do it.”  
 “Of course I can do it” Nick said. “Hold on a second; that looks like Lindsey over there.” 
He pointed to the other room with the pool tables. Lindsey was his ex-girlfriend, and hopeful 
step-daughter for my Ma. She was a pretty girl with light blonde hair and brown eyes. Nick had 
dumped her like a sack of potatoes because she was getting too “into his personal shit.” It had 
been almost a year since then, but Nick hadn’t found anyone to seriously date. I thought he had 
taken a vow not to get that involved again. If there’s one thing Nick can’t stand, its people 
questioning him. Otherwise known as “getting to know someone”. There was no right way for a 
girl to treat Nick. Either she was too possessive, or she didn’t take care of him enough. It was a 
no-win situation as far as I could tell. I felt sorry for Lindsey after the break-up, but Nick is my 
guy, and you just have to be on his side, no matter what. 
 “Yep, that looks like her” Sammy said, still glancing at the waitress who was now 
serving a table in the corner.  
 “Who’s she with? Who’s that asshole?” Nick said. 
 “Why does it matter Bro? You broke up with her – remember?” I just gave him that 
questioning look, wondering why he even cared. 
 “I just keep tabs on her. You know what I mean? No one told me she was seeing 
anyone.” He started to get that look of craziness in his face. 
 “Drop 
--- PAGE 52 ---
 “Kiss my ass! Did I ask your opinion?” He got up and started walking into the next room. 
Bob and Sammy and I just gave each other that look; that “oh shit” look. They started following, 
and I reluctantly did too. I wish I could just duck out the door right now, but Nick would kick my 
ass tomorrow if I ran. 
 “What’s up Lindsey” Nick asked her as he approached. She was wearing a pink sweater 
and boots. Actually, she looked pretty hot - more hot than I wished she did at that particular 
moment. 
 “Oh, hi Nick. Not much” she looked up at the ceiling and shrugged her shoulders. The 
guy she was with came up next to her and put his arm around her in a protective sort of way. He 
had black wavy hair and dark eyes. I would have guessed him to be Spanish, or Italian, or 
something. His eyes started to close slightly, in a look of suspicious anger, his caterpillar 
eyebrows dipped down the midline of his face. “Who is this?” the mystery man said. 
 “Oh, just an old friend,” Lindsey said as nonchalantly as she could. People were starting 
to stare. The room got quieter as the pool players paused and leaned onto their cues wondering 
what would happen next.  
 “Where did you meet this one? I didn’t hear of you dating anybody. We keep our ears 
out, if you know what I mean.” 
 “Nick, why does it matter to you?” she said, annoyed at the prospect of explaining her 
personal relationship with this new guy. 
 “Nick – leave it alone.” I tried to step in front of him, but he pushed me to 
--- PAGE 53 ---
 Uh oh, that did it. Red fire came out of Nick’s eyes. His nostrils flared, and he had his 
fists clenched. Bob and Sammy just stood there with anticipation on their faces. They looked 
around at the rest of the people in the room, sizing up what could be their opponents. This had 
the look and feel of an all-out brawl. You could have heard a pin drop with the exception of the 
background music coming out of the corner speakers. An old AC-DC song blared through: 
 “…so join me for a drink boys….we gonna make a big noise…have a drink on me….have 
a drink on me…” 
 One of the waitresses walked backwards out of the room, and made a b-line for the back 
kitchen, probably to warn Joe that trouble was brewing. I had had enough of this crap. I was so 
tired of Nick always making a scene, causing trouble, and basically getting away with 
everything. Why should I stand by while he pounds the shit out of this guy he had never met 
before? 
 I stepped up closer than I had ever dared to face Nick when he was in a state of rage. I 
looked him in the eye, pleading with him. “Nick, Nick, listen – you don’t have any problem with 
this guy. You don’t even know this guy. Lindsey can see whoever she wants. Leave it man, just 
leave it.” 
 “Keep out of it! It’s none of your Goddamn business. You’re going to be next if you 
don’t get out of my face asshole.” Nick kept his eyes glued on Lindsey’s boyfriend. If looks 
could kill, the guy would have already been dead. I had seen this all before. Onc
--- PAGE 54 ---
 “Stop it! Stop it! You’re crazy as shit! No one cares about your ego Nick!” I was yelling 
at him, looking him in the face. I was terrified, not only of being hit, but being shunned; shunned 
as his brother. At that moment I knew what I was truly afraid of. I was afraid of being alone. I 
was afraid of having to take full responsibility for myself and trying to make my way through 
this life, without Nick to back me up. I was yelling at the world, I was yelling at myself. 
 It was like everything was in slow motion. I could see Nick’s creased brow, his mouth 
twisted into a weird shape, and his right fist slowly drawing back and moving toward my face. It 
was as if I had plenty of time to react, because time was standing still. There was no sound or 
movement from the other people in the pool room. My head swerved back, and I caught my 
backward moving motion onto my right foot. Simultaneously, Joe and his big bouncer came 
running into the room and they tried to restrain Nick. Then, Lindsey’s voice was all I heard “No! 
Stop!” Then life became a blur again. I do remember Lindsey grabbing the dark man and 
pushing him toward the door pleading with him to get out of there and take her home. I 
remember Nick turning on Joe and the bouncer and head-butting the bouncer so he could escape 
the hands twisted around his arms. I could hear Sammy and Bob yelling at the other guys, and 
trying to get Nick out of the bar. 
 And then all I remember was running. I was running like a bear
--- PAGE 55 ---
Sammy and Bob were, and how they were. She had never met any of them. She just stared at me, 
taking her time to think. 
 “Your brother tried to hit you.” 
 “Yes, he did.” 
 “No one does that, you know. I mean, no one who really cares about you.” 
 “He does care about me. I can’t explain Nick completely, but I’m pretty sure at this rate, 
you may never meet him. I don’t know if we’ll ever even talk to each other again” I said. 
 “Well” she said, “if he never did, you would be better off. But, I think he will. He is like 
a thorn in your side. He obviously has issues with his self-esteem. I think he is a controlling ass, 
and you are showing him that you don’t need him. You are the voice of reason, and he doesn’t 
understand reason.” 
 I just looked at her. She had a point. Nick was an ass, and he did have poor self-esteem, 
which I had never seen until this moment. 
 “I love Nick though, I mean, he’s my brother. He had always taken care of us – me and 
Ma. I can’t just ignore him. I’m going to have to talk to him sometime.” 
 “I know sweetie, but look at you. Look at all the progress you have made that he hasn’t.” 
Her eyes had a compassionate look, as she stroked the side of my face. “You have learned to use 
your brain. You have been to yoga, and meditation now for half a year. Your mind is starting to 
work differently. You are becoming a bravely compassionate being. You can’t let him intimidate 
you, or stop you from your purpose.” 
 “My purpose….what is my purpose?” I re
