--- PAGE 36 ---
school year when we got tired of long division and trying to write paragraphs with three parts. It 
was total relief. Total uncontrollable joy bubbling up from the far reaches inside, telling the 
world “we’re almost free! Hee hee!” 
 Apparently Mrs. Stark didn’t see it that way. We had been getting on her bad side for the 
last week or so. She was at the end of her rope. Ma got a call from her the other night, and told 
me if I didn’t straighten out and “fly right” I would be punished. She would take my bike away 
for a week. Crap, I didn’t want that to happen. But, I just couldn’t help myself today. Everything 
Bobby and I saw, or heard, was absolutely hilarious. I saw Nick from the corner of my eye. He 
was walking toward us; hair in a devilish mess. “What are you two numbskulls doin’?” he asked 
looking around for a clue. 
 Bobby just looked at me nervously, seemingly muted by Nick’s presence. Nick was a big 
bad-assed sixth-grader. He was at the top of the totem pole in our school. Not only was he in the 
senior class, he was tall, and big, and highly respected for his bravery in every situation. Since 
Bobby wasn’t going to answer, I said, “Oh, just the usual crap from Mrs. Stark. She thinks we 
need to learn some responsibility”. The last two words came out slow with a muffled sputter 
before I burst into laughter again, my face red, and tears starting to form in the corners of my 
eyes. Nick slapped me across the shoulder. “Little Bro, you better start listening, man.
--- PAGE 37 ---
Mr. Pauls was the principal, and he sure wasn’t a “pal”. He was kind of a big prick. He didn’t 
like getting into it with arguing kids, and he really didn’t like getting into it with disrespectful 
kids and their parents. 
 “Um, sorry Mrs. Stark” Nick interrupted. “He didn’t mean anything by it. He and Bobby 
were just goofing around. You should see them around my house. It never ends. I’ll talk to him 
and Ma will talk to him. He’ll never act up in class again. I guarantee it.” 
 Mrs. Stark put her glasses on, tipping her head at just the right angle so she could get a 
good head-to-toe of Nick. Actually, he might have been just an inch taller than her. “Well, Nick, 
I know you’re a good student. It’s too bad your brother here doesn’t have the same level head as 
you. It’s been such a pleasure having you at the school. We will be sorry to see you go. I guess 
I’ll let it pass this time.” Then she turned to me, “YOU, young man, need to follow your 
brother’s example and start paying attention. And you, Bobby, your mother will be getting a little 
note from me also.” She turned on her heels like a Nazi in one of those old World War II movies, 
and marched back up to the school. 
 “Nick, um thanks man. You saved my skin” I said. Bobby just looked at him and said, 
“Yeah Nick. Thanks a lot. My mom would be so upset if Mr. Pauls called her.”  
Nick just smirked and stared at us with a look of warning.  
 “You two knock it off. That is the last time I’m getting involved in your st
--- PAGE 38 ---
was like he could just go around doin’ whatever he wanted, and everything would be okay. It 
was like he was magic or something.  
 Later that night, Nick came into my room and asked how the rest of the day went.  
 “Oh, it was okay. Thanks again for standing up to Mrs. Stark for me.” 
 “So what was the joke anyway?” he asked. 
 “She was telling us we needed to learn responsibility. But it just wasn’t that, it was the 
way she said it. It was just really funny at the time.” I was at a loss for words, because now it 
didn’t seem funny at all, when it had seemed hilarious earlier. 
 “You’re such a numbskull, man.” He reached over and mussed up the hair on the top of 
my head. “I’ll always take care of you. Don’t forget that.” 
 “I won’t Nick. I won’t” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 39 ---
      2. 
 
 I found myself staring out the front window of the pizza parlor. The grass was turning 
green, and the weather was getting warmer. That must have been what triggered the memory of 
Nick and me in grade school. I just sighed, a slight grin on my face.  He had always been the 
alpha dog of the family. Well, actually, he had always been the alpha dog in any group he had 
ever been a part of. I don’t think Sionna really got the full gist of this. She hadn’t met Nick yet. 
So far, I had managed to keep them apart. But I knew sooner or later, they would end up in the 
same place. They were both the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end – of me 
anyway. What I mean is, both of them completed me in some way. Just really different ways. He 
was the leader, the supporter, the pusher, I guess. She was the soft part of my life, my comfort, 
and inner strength. Without both of them, who would I be? Who would I be? That was the 
question I had to ask myself. 
 A couple months had gone by since my fight with Nick. He was now avoiding us like the 
plague. He can over to see Ma about once a week, but barely said anything to me now. If he did, 
it was something smartass, like “how’s that girlfriend of yours Bro? Hope you’re getting 
something from her, your nose is nice and brown.” He was always saying some stupid crap like 
that. I just ignored him for the most part. Actually, Nick wasn’t bothering me that much 
anymore. Since I had started meditation, and been doing it 
--- PAGE 40 ---
control where those emotions were going. It was like being my own monitor. It was pretty useful 
really.  
 I could see that a lot of what Nick once meant to me was kind of silly, in a way. He was 
not the all-powerful beast people cracked him up to be. He was not my best friend, or my biggest 
fear. Nick was just a person. I am just a person, and on and on and on. No one is more powerful 
than I am, or less powerful than I am. I guess we all have inner strength. We just need to figure 
out how to use it. Ma was doing okay. We had her medication down to a science now, with all 
the pills laid out for each day, and for the time of day she needed them. She was often confused, 
but able to remember what happened for short periods most of the time. The best part was, she 
really loved Sionna. She asked me when she was coming over, what she was going to cook 
(when she did), and told me how “nice” and “polite” she was. It made me happy inside. To 
actually feel like I was being valued for a decision that I had made, not that Nick made, but that I 
had made, felt awesome. 
 Nick came over to visit last night. He walked in with his big boots and brown suede 
jacket, threw his keys into the basket next to the front door, and bent down to kiss Ma. She 
peeled her eyes away from the T.V. long enough to kiss his cheek and ask how his work was. 
 “Oh, you know, it was okay I guess. Those assholes next to me in the line almost caught 
me in the goddamn drill press today. I told them to pu
--- PAGE 41 ---
 “So, what’s up with you?” he said, pressing his lips into a strange pursed curl. 
 “Ah, not much. Just working and thinking about going to school” I said. I was expecting 
a huge knee-slapping laugh from Nick, but he just stared at me silently contemplating what I had 
just said. 
 “Going to school? How the hell are you going to pay for that? And what for?” His look 
displayed an incomprehensible expression, as if he had just heard Ma was pregnant or 
something. 
 “Well, I decided that there’s a lot of good jobs out there, but I have to have a degree to do 
anything worth doing, so I’m going to the community college and getting a bachelor’s degree in 
business. Maybe I can manage a restaurant or someplace like that.” I waited for his arguments. 
 “How the hell will you pay for it? How the hell are you going to have time to watch Ma if 
your screwing around with those pencil-pushers?” His eyes looked like they were set on fire. 
 “Sionna told me I could qualify for a low-interest student loan. I checked it all out, and 
applied for it, and they gave me the money. I mean, really, community college isn’t that much 
compared to other places.” 
 Nick cut me short. “Whoa, whoa, whoa dude. You have really done it now. I can’t 
believe you are letting this chick tell you what to do. It’s not like she’s gonna be around to help 
pay this shit back! That’s all on your head man. I can tell you one thing, it sure ain’t gonna be me 
helping your sorry ass out when you finish – IF you fini
--- PAGE 42 ---
want to work in a pizza place my whole life. Second, I don’t do everything Sionna tells me, this 
was my idea. And lastly, it would really mean a lot to me if you could just step up and be on my 
side for once, you know? You are my brother, man.” I was trying not to lose my cool composure, 
because we really needed to work things out. I needed him to work with me on this. 
 “Be on your side? Be on your side?” he said with an elevating voice. 
 “Man, do you actually remember your own life? How many times have I saved your ass? 
I mean really, can you keep count?” 
 Ma was starting to notice there was something unusual going on. She looked up with a 
confused, creased forehead. She started nodding her head side to side, as if to say, “Please don’t 
argue boys.” Slowly, she returned her eyes back to the television screen and folded her hands in 
her lap. 
 “I know, Nick, I know. I’m not saying that. What I mean is, I really need my family to 
support me on this. It’s going to be really hard, and take a lot of time. I will be here for Ma. 
Classes aren’t all day. I have to be in and out of here. I’ll make sure she’s okay.” 
 Nick looked pensive. “Do you remember that time in high school when Donny Amstel 
started harassing you? He was pushing you in the locker room after gym class and calling here 
hanging up, and threatening to steal you bike? Do you remember all that?” 
 “Yeah, sure, I do remember that. You told me you would take care of it, and then, all of a 
sudden, he just 
--- PAGE 43 ---
my body in his front door, so he couldn’t close it. Oh God man, he looked like he was about to 
shit his pants.” Nick started giggling like a little kid. “Then – then, oh man. Then, I told him if he 
ever threatened you like that again he would be killed. I told him our family had mafia 
connections. And he believed me! He was so scared, I couldn’t believe he actually believed me. 
What a dumbass! It worked though, right?” He looked so proud of himself right then. 
 “It did work Nick, it did.” I had to snicker too. The thought of us being connected to the 
mafia was the craziest thing ever. We were about as far from Italian as you could get. I mean, if 
there was a Viking mafia organization, then maybe. I just smiled at him. “You are something 
else man.” 
 He hit me lightly on the arm. “You’re not just my brother man, you’re my best friend.” 
That completely caught me off guard. I hadn’t ever thought about it, but I guess we were pretty 
good friends. I guess I could consider Nick to be my best friend. All my friends from high school 
were getting married, and having kids. I was friends with some of the guys at work, but none of 
them were that great of friends. Nick and me, we had a history all right. I just smiled at him. 
 “Just remember this Bro, nothin’, I mean nothing is ever gonna come between us. You 
get me man? You get me? Not school, not Ma, and not this girl either. I mean, I get it. I get that 
she’s your girlfriend. But bro’s before ho’s. You know what I mean?”
--- PAGE 44 ---
      3 
 
 My first class was a college level English class. We were going to have to write a lot, and 
apparently read a lot too. It was all leading up to a long essay at the end of the semester. We had 
to present an argument, and support it with research and what-not. It had been over a decade 
since I was in a classroom. I thought I would be the oldest one there, but was shocked to look 
around and see quite a few middle aged people, even a grandma or two. This got my hopes up. 
Maybe I wouldn’t have as much trouble as these older folks, I mean, hell, at least I had been 
there closer than they had. We went to the library on campus and rummaged through the 
reference section, listened to the librarian talk about resources, and that kind of thing. It wasn’t 
so bad really. There were a few cute girls in there; just a few really. They were mostly younger 
than me. They weren’t as pretty as Sionna, though. But then when they opened their mouths – oh 
God! The stupid shit that came out was amazing. It was like they didn’t talk about anything but 
their clothes, their hair, nails, blah, blah, blah. I couldn’t believe the difference between them and 
Sionna. She was a rocket scientist compared to these chicks. 
 I had to get a computer to do all this work at home. Sionna hooked me up with this guy 
who was selling his, and I got him to come over and set it up in my bedroom. Ma was confused 
out of her mind. “What’s going on? What is that thing? Why do you need that?” The quest
--- PAGE 45 ---
job, I was getting very little sleep, and when I did sleep, I slept hard. I didn’t mind it though. 
Every day I woke up with a purpose, which was a lot different than the way I used to wake up. 
My purpose was taking care of Ma, learning, and loving Sionna. Me and her were getting to 
know each other better and better all the time. She helped me with my homework. It was like she 
actually enjoyed it, even though I knew she already learned this stuff. Her brain was like a steel 
trap; she remembered everything she ever learned. I wish I could become like that. She told me 
that learning was like meditating. You have to focus on one thing, and that thing only. If you did 
this, you would never forget. She told me the ancient Tibetans had a way of remembering things. 
They pretended to see a big library in their minds. Every time they learned a fact, they would 
walk over to the section in the library that it belonged in, and open a book labeled that thing, and 
store the fact into that book. Fascinating! I started to picture my mind’s library, and storing all 
the facts I learned into the correct book. So far, I didn’t have too many book, or sections of the 
library, for that matter, in actual use. But, someday, I hoped to have a library full of facts.  
 “What do you want to do today” Sionna asked as we were walking out of the apartment 
building. Ma had found a game show to watch, and we decided to get some fresh air. The sky 
was blue, and it was going to be a warm one. Some
--- PAGE 46 ---
 “No.” she said calmly. “Why do you let other people bother you like that? You know 
they’re just kids, and there’s nothing funny about what we’re doing, so, just ignore them.” 
 “Well I know that logically, but it still pisses me off” I didn’t know how to describe my 
symptoms of inner rage. 
 “Well, I’ll tell you something. Only when we become masters of ourselves, can we really 
deal with the world. What I mean is, the world is full of stupid, violent, seemingly useless 
people. But you aren’t stupid, violent, or useless. You know more than they do. You can see that 
your feelings are not logical, and you can deal with moving on. You have a purpose. We have to 
live with all kinds of people that aren’t as advanced as we are spiritually.” 
 “Do you really think we are more advanced spiritually? How do you know they aren’t 
yet, but might become like Buddha or something?” 
 “So if they do become like Buddha, we should definitely leave them alone, so they can 
follow that path. I mean, if you think one of those boys is going to become the next spiritual 
master, then you should be glad you got a glimpse of what they used to be like!” She just started 
laughing, and so did I. Thinking about one of those numbskulls becoming enlightened made me 
laugh. 
 “You’re really something, you know that?” 
 “You’re really something too.” She looked up at me with her ocean eyes and I leaned 
down and kissed her. That kiss was like slow motion. It was like there was no one else around, 
and
--- PAGE 47 ---
 “That is one of our missions, I think.” She looked pensive. “We have to learn how to 
speak it to everyone, even strangers, and even people we don’t particularly like.” 
 “That’s going to be hard” I said. 
 “I know. That is the meaning of “loving kindness”. That is the ability to open our hearts 
and accept everyone, even those kids on the corner laughing at us. It might take my whole life, 
but I am bound and determined to find that inside of me and bring it out.” 
 “Let me know if you do, because if my girlfriend is loving everyone, I think I’m going to 
need a new one!” I started laughing. 
 “I could never love anyone like I love you.” That was it. That was what had not been 
said, and now it was said. I would remember the way she looked at me for the rest of my life. My 
girlfriend told me she loved me, and it was the most sincere statement I have ever heard. It really 
came from her heart. 
 “I could never love anyone the way I love you either.” We just smiled at each other and 
kept on walking. 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 48 ---
      4 
 
 
 
  Nick was laughing so hard, I thought he might fall off his couch. He had smoke 
sputtering out of the corner of his mouth, and his face was beet red as usual. At that moment I 
wondered why I had even taken the time to come over to his apartment. 
 “Come on, Bro. You haven’t been to my place for ages.” His argument finally persuaded 
me to ride over to his place and sit around with him and a couple old friends before heading to 
Joe’s to play pool and hassle the waitresses. This was the usual scene: Nick invites people over, 
Nick gets hammered, and Nick has an audience to tell his stories to. Boring. I’ve heard all this 
shit about a million times.  
 “Man,” Bob said holding the ceramic pipe and blowing smoke, “I don’t know about you 
guys, but I’m needin’ some new action. This girlfriend of mine used to be a freak, but she won’t 
put out anymore.” 
 “Same old story man, it never gets any better” Sammy said, taking a sip from the Bud 
can. “They just want to get you trapped, and then start spending your cash. Not to mention, they 
stop looking good after a while. It’s like they just start eating, never wear make-up, or do their 
hair, or any of that shit.” 
 “Fuck make-up man”, Bob said. “I like a natural looking girls, you know, big tits and 
bright eyes.” He just started sputtering smoke out. 
--- PAGE 49 ---
 Nick just laughed. “Hey, unless you know some Victoria Secret models around here, I’m 
just here to tell you there aint’ many good looking girls in Milwaukee, period. Aint’ that right 
Bro? Oh Wait, yea, never mind. He’s got the perfect girlfriend. She has him wrapped right now.” 
 “Oh wow dude, is that right?” Sammy said looking at me. “Are you being pussy 
whipped? “ He slapped his leg and stomped one foot on the floor. “Man, do you need a ‘get out 
of jail free’ card or something?” The three of them kept it up a few more minutes, while I just 
leaned back on the rocking chair and smiled. What a bunch of morons. 
 “You three wouldn’t recognize class and intelligence if it jumped up and bit your ass” I 
said finally. “Hell, Tyra Banks could ask you for your number, and you wouldn’t recognize an 
opportunity. Not that I’m saying Tyra Banks is fun to be around – I don’t know her.” 
 “Oh Dude! You have got to be kidding me” Sammy laughed, looking more stoned by the 
minute. “Tyra banks can move in, take over my bank account, and have my fucking CAR if she 
wants!” They all started laughing again. 
 Apparently, tonight was not the night to get into an intelligent conversation with these 
three knuckle heads. It’s not like any one of them would have understood Sionna in any way. It 
would be like trying to explain algebra to a bug; totally useless. It did piss me off though. I mean, 
Nick pretends to be all understanding when we are by ourselves, but then calls me out in front o
--- PAGE 50 ---
their beer bottles and tumbler glasses filled with mixed well drinks. A T.V. on a tall stack in the 
corner was inaudible with all the talking, laughing, and sounds of heavy rock music. This was 
the place where people like us came on Saturday nights. By people like us, I mean, the working 
poor and middle class. People who worked their asses off forty-plus hours a week for a measly 
paycheck, then spent a third of it drinking and shooting pool. I took a look around. I hadn’t been 
in here for probably at least six months. It seemed strange to me, as if I were an alien visiting the 
planet, amused by the antics of the population. Everyone appeared familiar, but the lifestyle was 
starting to confuse me. All of a sudden it felt so – dumb. Just dumb. These people felt dumb, like 
they were numb from the world. They didn’t want to question anything, or learn anything. They 
just enjoyed being miserable five days a week, happy for one, and regretful on Sunday from their 
hangovers and awkward sexual encounters. 
 Oh well, when in Rome, do as the Romans do. I had heard that, and it resonated with me 
right now. I took a deep breath, and stepped up to the bar beside Nick, who (of course) everyone 
scooched over for. Nick ordered a Jack and Coke, Sammy and Bob had BPR’s, and I had a Bud. 
I had never been bothered by smoke before, but tonight it was making my eyes water. A couple 
of the waitresses sashayed by wearing blue jeans and white blouses, Joe’s requirement for 
uniformed em
