Scene 4, Clip 2, Speaker Character_N: You don't need a degree to get a good job. All you need is to know somebody and you will get a good job someday. That's how it always happens.
Scene 4, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: What kind of shit do you want to take at school anyway? All that crap is just a bunch of nerds talking to hear themselves talk. Nobody ever learned anything in college that you can use in the real world.
Scene 5, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: Yes.
Scene 5, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: Sionna.
Scene 5, Clip 7, Speaker Character_S: My mom and dad named her after an Irish goddess, and then something about the River Shannon. I wasn't really listening though, because she had the coolest eyes I ever saw. But it was weird – I felt like I had known her from before. Like we were old friends.
Scene 6, Clip 4, Speaker Character_M: I can't find my pain pills, I know I put them here somewhere. Did we go to church today? Did you see Mrs. Canasta there?
Scene 7, Clip 1, Speaker Character_M: I can't remember anything anymore. I'm no good for anything.
Scene 7, Clip 3, Speaker Character_M: Nick doesn't love me. He never comes to see me anymore. What's wrong with him? Did I do something to make him mad?
Scene 7, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Hey, little brother. What's shakin'?
Scene 8, Clip 1, Speaker Character_N: What's the matter? I can tell you're hidin' something. What's goin' on?
Scene 8, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: I knew she would start going crazy cooped up in that place all day. Why don't you take her to the store or something? Holy Christ, do something with her before she turns into some demented old fart!
Scene 10, Clip 3, Speaker Character_M: It’s so cold outside. I don’t have a nice coat to wear. Where are we going anyway? It just went on and on and on.
Scene 14, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: Did you know that Buddhists consider everything around us to be a dream? / I don't get that. I'm sitting in a chair, I'm breathing air, and I'm looking at you. How could all this be just fake?
Scene 14, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: Well, it's not fake, it's just not something that will last for more than the present moment. That doesn't mean that it's not a chair. It just means that soon it won't be a chair. Once it was a tree, now it's a chair, and someday it will just be rust and dust.
Scene 15, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: You were really great at that. / Are you kidding me? / No, you caught on very quickly. We both smiled. I guess if all I'm doing is practicing, then I never have to be perfect.
Scene 17, Clip 2, Speaker Character_N: Ma missed her doctor's appointment yesterday, you ass! Where the hell were you? Don't you remember your responsibilities around here? What were you doing yesterday that was so important anyway?
Scene 17, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: I met a girl, and we had a couple dates. That's all. / Oh, great. A girl. That's worth all this. Don't you think Ma deserves better than that? Try looking at your priorities Bro.
Scene 19, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: She told me the sugars get caught in the leaves. It's like the trees are shutting down for the winter. The sugars get caught in the leaves and it makes them turn spectacular colors.
Scene 21, Clip 4, Speaker Character_M: It just feels like my heart is going to jump out of my chest! It's so strange, the feeling I have right now. I'm a little dizzy too. / Are you okay Ma? I started to get worried.
Scene 22, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: Nick shows up and asks, What the hell is this all about now? And we explained the situation. Ma didn't seem too concerned. She did keep holding onto her chest and saying that she heard ringing in her ears.
Scene 22, Clip 4, Speaker Character_M: Someone must be talking about me. / That's right Ma, we are.
Scene 23, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: That you are little brother! / He hissed at me.
Scene 24, Clip 2, Speaker Character_M: You're such a good boy. You and Nick are like a God-send to me. What would I do without you two? / I had to think to myself... Nick? Like Nick was ever around. That was a laugh.
Scene 24, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: What's up, little bro? You got Ma all tucked in? Man, you should've been a nurse! / Knock it off. Somebody has to make sure she stays on track. Where have you been?
Scene 29, Clip 2, Speaker Character_N: So, what's up with you? / Ah, not much. Just working and thinking about going to school, I said. I was expecting a huge laugh from Nick, but he just stared at me silently.
Scene 29, Clip 6, Speaker Character_N: Be on your side? Man, do you remember your own life? How many times have I saved your ass? Do you remember that time in high school when Donny Amstel started harassing you, threatening to steal your bike?
Scene 30, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: You're not just my brother, man. You're my best friend. / That completely caught me off guard. I guess we were pretty good friends. I guess I could consider Nick to be my best friend. Nick and me, we had a history all right.
Scene 30, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Just remember this Bro, nothing, I mean nothing is ever gonna come between us. You get me man? Not school, not Ma, and not this girl either. I mean, I get it, she's your girlfriend. But bro's before ho's. You know?
Scene 32, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: She told me learning was like meditating. Focus on one thing, and that thing only. She told me the ancient Tibetans had a way. They pretended to see a big library in their minds. Store the fact into that book. Fascinating!
Scene 33, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: Why do you let other people bother you like that? There's nothing funny about what we're doing, so just ignore them. Only when we become masters of ourselves can we really deal with the world.
Scene 33, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: The world is full of violent, seemingly useless people. But you aren't violent or useless. You know more. We have to live with people that aren't as advanced spiritually. / Do you think one of those boys is going to be the next Buddha?
Scene 34, Clip 1, Speaker Character_S: That is what Buddhists call loving kindness. It means opening your heart and accepting everyone, even those kids on the corner laughing at us. It might take my whole life, but I am determined to find that inside.
Scene 34, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: I could never love anyone like I love you. / That was it. That was what had not been said, and now it was said. I would remember the way she looked at me for the rest of my life. It really came from her heart.
Scene 35, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: Hey, unless you know some Victoria's Secret models, there ain't many good-looking girls in Milwaukee, period. Ain't that right, Bro? Oh wait, yeah, never mind. He's got the perfect girlfriend. She has him wrapped.
Scene 37, Clip 1, Speaker Character_N: Hold on a second. That looks like Lindsey over there. She was his ex-girlfriend. He had dumped her like a sack of potatoes because she was getting too into his personal shit.
Scene 37, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: I just keep tabs on her. You know what I mean? No one told me she was seeing anyone. He started to get that look of craziness in his face.
Scene 37, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Kiss my ass! Did I ask your opinion? / He got up and started walking. Sammy, Bob, and I gave each other that 'oh shit' look and followed. I wanted to run, but Nick would kick my ass tomorrow.
Scene 38, Clip 1, Speaker Character_N: What's up Lindsey? Nick asked. Oh, hi Nick. Not much, she shrugged. The guy she was with came up next to her and put his arm around her. Who is this? the mystery man said.
Scene 39, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: Your brother tried to hit you, she said. Yes, he did, I replied. No one does that, you know. I mean, no one who really cares about you.
Scene 39, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: If he never did, you would be better off. But I think he will. He obviously has issues with his self-esteem. He is a controlling ass, and you are showing him that you don't need him. You are the voice of reason.
Scene 39, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: You have learned to use your brain. You've been to yoga and meditation for half a year. Your mind is working differently. You are becoming a bravely compassionate being. You can't let him intimidate you from your purpose.
Scene 40, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: Me too honey. Me too. / We lingered in that realization for a moment. By the way, she said, the purpose of your life is to find the true self within you, and to honor it. To be the best person you can while you're here. That's how I see it.
Scene 42, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: She giggled, that sounds about right! Let's go to bed. We've had an interesting day. You can say that again, I said. We shuffled down the dark hallway, peeled off our clothes, and climbed into her crisp fragrant sheets. We were out.
Scene 45, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: Geez, what a day! I've been running around like a chicken with its head cut off. Yoga, store, class notes on comparative religion, library, and then here. / She talked, and all I could do was watch her mouth move.
Scene 45, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: So what's your paper about? Oh, thoughts on dualism. Perception is so cool to think about, she said. Like, is this bed here when you don't see it? / Does a tree that falls in the forest make a sound if no one hears it? I snorted.
Scene 46, Clip 1, Speaker Character_S: You know my parents were hippies, right? / No. / Well, I was born in 1970, and my mom always said she got pregnant with me at Woodstock. / Is that right? I had no idea you were a product of the hippie culture.
Scene 46, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: My Dad went by 'Mushroom' and my Mom went by 'Ginger'. How do you think I got the name Sionna? It's a Celtic Goddess, matron of the River Shannon, the possessor of wisdom from the Celtic underworld. Fascinating, huh?
Scene 46, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: My mom and dad smoked a lot of pot and dropped a lot of acid. I'm surprised my brain works at all. I was an only child because they were too interested in their extracurricular activities to worry about diapers. It was hard keeping friends.
Scene 47, Clip 2, Speaker Kevin McCleary: Man, I heard what happened at Joe's! What the hell? His face contorted, eyes got big. I heard you stopped Nick from beating some guy's ass! Man, that's tough shit! They said you hauled off and clocked Nick!
Scene 47, Clip 4, Speaker Kevin McCleary: Sure, sure man, I got you covered, Kevin chuckled. But I'm just saying, it's all over town. You're the hottest topic flying around! People are saying Nick's little brother is a badass! / Don't believe everything you hear, I said.
Scene 49, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: We sat on her old, lumpy chocolate-colored couch. Well, I got a little bit of weed for us to smoke, she said. The guy I know on campus sold me some because I've known him for four years.
Scene 49, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: Oh my gosh, I've had this for ten or twelve years! she laughed. I really don't sit around and smoke pot – I've been a little busy. No, I'm sure your workload doesn't jive with wasting time, I smiled. Well, that's what we're doing today!
Scene 49, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: I am glad I get to do this, because I love just being with you, and talking about fun stuff for once! She opened the plastic baggie, packed a little into the bowl. I'll go first, she said. She lit it, inhaled, and coughed. Wow! That is strong!
Scene 50, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: She told me she could sometimes see people's auras. We are made of energy, and energy has been proven to never end. Well, energy fields surround our bodies. Different people emit different colors.
Scene 50, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: I can't see it right now, but once or twice I saw it – you are a beautiful color of light blue. To me, blue is peaceful, soothing, calm, and friendly. It's loyalty. You are a loyal person.
Scene 51, Clip 5, Speaker Bob: Your boyfriend single-handedly conquered the BEAST! Bob laughed. No, I had no idea, Sionna smiled, her eyes slightly red. I could tell she was trying not to laugh. Knock it off Bob, I muttered, looking at the ground.
Scene 51, Clip 6, Speaker Bob: Man, you were in Nick's face! You moved like Bruce Lee, dog! Everybody is talking. Sayin' he's a pussy, excuse my language. Sayin' he's not the same. Please stop those rumors Bob, I sighed, Nick is still Nick.
Scene 52, Clip 1, Speaker Bob: Nuff said! Bob laughed. Man, you might get pissed and kick my ass! Tell Nick I want to hang sometime. I haven't seen Nick, I said. You mean, you haven't seen him either? No, Bob said, not since that night.
Scene 53, Clip 3, Speaker Character_M: I did what? she started sniveling and crying. She had sudden realizations of her senility. I held her hands. Now Ma, come on, don't cry, I comforted. I can't remember anything anymore, she sobbed, I'm no good for anything.
Scene 55, Clip 2, Speaker Character_N: The door creaked open just a slit, gold chain attached. I saw the crazy brown hair and pox-marked face. What do YOU want? Nick said accusingly. Will you let me in, please? I said. What for? he snapped.
Scene 55, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: Trash, clothes, papers everywhere. Is everything okay? I asked. What do YOU think, moron? Nick spat angrily. You've ruined my life! I can't go anywhere. People are talking. Saying I'm a pussy, my little brother kicked my ass!
Scene 55, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: All because of your big mouth! Trying to be a hero. You piece of shit! You started some rumor to make yourself look good. My reputation is dog shit. Thanks a lot Bro, thanks a lot. / I tried to remain calm.
Scene 56, Clip 2, Speaker Character_N: I don't give a shit how hard you work or about your girlfriend. But you are my little brother. I care about you and Ma, and I'll let it slide. But don't you ever, EVER, interrupt me in public again. You got that?
Scene 56, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: She'll probably have to go to an old folks' home one of these days. Make sure you give her her meds, or she'll end up in the hospital. I said absolutely, thanked him, and left. At least I would have some help.
Scene 57, Clip 1, Speaker Character_M: Ma was actually laughing! It made me sad that I hadn't heard that sound in so long. On Halloween, she giggled, my brothers would watch from the bushes and tip those outhouses over! We were plain hoodlums on the farm!
Scene 57, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: Sounds like you were a bunch of troublemakers, Sionna smiled. Ma sat still, then asked me: why don't we go to church anymore? I said I'd take her next Sunday. Okay Ma, we'll go. Ugh, like I had time for that too.
Scene 58, Clip 2, Speaker Character_M: Oh my God! It's you Nick! I thought we'd never see you! Where have you been hiding? Ma was so excited. She leaned forward to get her kiss. Oh, you know, busy working and crap, Nick said. This one treating you alright? he asked, pointing at me.
Scene 58, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: We're just fine, Ma laughed. Sionna walked in with the pie, set it on the table, wiped her hands on her jeans, and held out her hand. Nick looked at her hand like it was attached to an alien being. I'm Sionna, nice to meet you, she said.
Scene 58, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: Uh, yea, likewise, he reluctantly shook. You're just in time for pie, she said. No thanks, Nick sneered. I can't eat that crap. Sugar makes me feel bloated and sick. Alright, let me know if you want anything, she said politely.
Scene 58, Clip 6, Speaker Character_N: So, I hear you're a university lady, Nick sneered. That's right, Sionna smiled. What are you gonna do when you get done? I had a minor philosophy major, she said, thinking college professor, if I can write a decent thesis.
Scene 58, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: Well professor, I hope the best for ya. School doesn't pay off. I hope you can break through that glass ceiling. Because, you know, it's even harder for a woman to teach at that level, or so I've heard. My insides shriveled.
Scene 59, Clip 1, Speaker Character_S: Well Nick, I disagree. In the last forty years, degrees earned by women rose from 35 to 55 percent. We make up sixty percent of undergrads. This is encouraging, considering women juggle school, family, and work.
Scene 59, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: I don't see how education cannot be changed for the better by female professors. You can't keep a good woman down. / She smiled, picking up plates. Ma looked at her as if she were the second coming.
Scene 59, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: If you ask me, that's why the country is heading down the tubes! Women can't stay home with kids. No offense Ma. / Sionna calmly disagreed, explaining economic dual-incomes, single parents, and diversity of thought.
Scene 59, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Nick couldn't stand that things got better when he was gone. He stood, kissed Ma, and said: well, someone has a job tomorrow. His smile was thin and snake-like. Sounds like you have it figured out, with Doctor Sionna's help.
Scene 59, Clip 6, Speaker Character_N: Sionna warmly said she wished they talked more. I just wanted Nick gone. His presence made me sick. Take care of this numbskull, Nick sneered, grabbing my shoulders. I saw his face red, wild hair dancing.
Scene 59, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: Take care of Ma, he whispered. Nick, you know I will, I said. I watched him walk down the hallway, already shoving a cigarette in his mouth. He could care less if anyone complained.
Scene 61, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: She was researching creation myths in different religions. We started discussing it, and stuff started to make sense. Like she said, the more you look into some things, the less you believe any of it can be true.
Scene 61, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: People will laugh at us for thinking one religion was right, and others wrong. They'll laugh at our strict rules to save us from fire. Maybe, like she says, God is just energy. Energy is in all of us.
Scene 62, Clip 2, Speaker Character_M: Ma was flustered. What should I wear? she asked. We said to just wear anything, because God sees you all the time anyway. She bought into that and shuffled off with Nick.
Scene 64, Clip 2, Speaker Character_S: They wouldn't even respond to Robert and Margery, she smiled. Oh, so they do have real names, I snickered. Yes, raised right here in the good old Midwest, christened with proper names and everything! She smiled happily.
Scene 64, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: I asked about their relations with their parents. Actually, my father's parents mentally divorced him. I remember seeing them once at the farm. A bad scene, yelling, grandmother crying. Her hair piled up in a beehive, cheap blue polyester dress.
Scene 64, Clip 4, Speaker Character_S: She looked at me through the screen door, tears streaming. She knew her husband would never mend ways with dad. They're both dead now. My mom's parents tried to be in my life, but Grandma and Grandpa just didn't get tofu.
Scene 64, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: They also didn't get making yogurt, unpasteurized milk, drumming around a fire, you know. They discouraged belief in the Easter bunny, Santa, or tooth fairy. Elves, wood nymphs, the spiritual life of plants and trees, all ok!
Scene 65, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: They adored Sionna, their only child. As we walked up the wooden steps, two old hippies stepped out. Mushroom had a long grey beard and a tie-dye shirt, and Ginger wore a beautiful long floral dress. They waved with pure joy.
Scene 67, Clip 14, Speaker Character_S: Sionna was already at the door, her yellow sun hat left behind on the table, holding her keys and looking at me with fierce, unwavering support.
Scene 68, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: Sionna kept her eyes glued to the white lines on the asphalt. She didn't say anything, but I could see the muscles in her jaw working, tight with focus.
Scene 68, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: Hey, she said softly, reaching out to squeeze my hand. She's strong, P. She's survived so much already. Don't lose hope yet. Just breathe.
Scene 68, Clip 9, Speaker Character_S: A huge semi-truck roared past us in the opposite direction, throwing a massive wave of dirty water over our hood. The Civic shook, but Sionna held it steady.
Scene 68, Clip 12, Speaker Character_S: Sionna checked her mirrors and accelerated slightly as the rain began to taper off into a light, gray drizzle. The sky in the east was starting to turn a pale gray.
Scene 68, Clip 15, Speaker Character_S: Sionna turned onto the main avenue leading to the hospital. The big brick buildings rose up ahead of us like cold monuments under the gray morning sky.
Scene 69, Clip 8, Speaker Character_N: I put my hand on his shoulder. It was the first time I had initiated physical contact with him in years. You did the right thing, Nick. You called the ambulance.
Scene 69, Clip 10, Speaker Character_N: I looked at his hands – the hands that had won dozens of bar fights, the hands that had protected me. Right now, they were just shaking, empty and weak.
Scene 69, Clip 12, Speaker Character_S: Thanks, Sionna, Nick muttered, looking up at her. He drank the water in one big gulp and crushed the paper cup in his fist, his expression turning grim.
Scene 69, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: Nick leaned his head back against the wall. I always thought I could protect us from anything, P, he murmured. But I can't fight a stroke. I can't punch a disease.
Scene 70, Clip 6, Speaker Character_N: Nick slowly reached out and took her other hand, his huge fingers completely wrapping around her small, wrinkled palm. Hey Ma, he said, his voice a gravelly whisper.
Scene 70, Clip 9, Speaker Character_N: Nick bent over the bed, his forehead resting against the metal side rail. I could see his broad shoulders shaking under his leather jacket. He was crying silently.
Scene 70, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: Nick looked up, his face wet with tears, staring at P with raw vulnerability.
Scene 70, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: P, she's not there, Nick whispered, looking up at me. His eyes were wide with a childlike terror. That's not Ma. Ma is gone. I don't know where she is.
Scene 70, Clip 16, Speaker Character_N: Ma, I'm here, Nick said, his voice cracking. I took care of the house, Ma. I took you to mass, remember? St. Patrick's. You looked so pretty. I'm right here.
Scene 71, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: P, he said suddenly, his voice scraping the silence. Remember that winter we lived in that drafty apartment on Main Street? The one where the furnace broke?
Scene 71, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Nick smiled, a tiny, fleeting movement. Yeah. I stole a bunch of wood from that construction site down the road and made a campfire in the yard. We roasted hotdogs.
Scene 71, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: Nick looked down at his calloused hands. I didn't know how to do anything else, P. I was just a kid, but I knew I had to feed you. I used to sneak cheese from the store.
Scene 71, Clip 8, Speaker Character_N: My jaw tightened. I never knew that. You stole food for me? Nick shrugged. Of course I did. You were my little brother. That was my job.
Scene 71, Clip 11, Speaker Character_N: Nick looked at me, his eyes wide and honest in the dim light. Don't be stupid, P. You were the smart one. You were supposed to study, not worry about food.
Scene 71, Clip 12, Speaker Character_N: I always knew you'd get out of this town, P, he murmured. You have a beautiful brain. You're going to write books. I'm just a brawler. But you, you're special.
Scene 71, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: Nick nodded slowly, looking over at Ma's peaceful face. Yeah. We are. She loved you so much, P. She used to show your report cards to anyone who would look.
Scene 71, Clip 15, Speaker Character_N: She was so proud of you, P. Even when she was flustered, she'd whisper to me: P is going to make us proud. He's going to be a real writer.
Scene 71, Clip 17, Speaker Character_N: You'll have your chance, P, Nick said softly. She knows. Mothers always know. She's resting now. Let's just sit with her.
Scene 72, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: I felt a cold wind blow through my soul. But she's breathing, Nick protested, his voice rising, angry and defensive. The machine is doing it, Nick.
Scene 72, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: What are you saying? Nick demanded, standing up, his large frame towering over the doctor's desk. You're just going to give up on her?
Scene 72, Clip 12, Speaker Character_N: She's our mother! Nick roared, his chest heaving under his leather jacket. We don't pull the plug on our mother! We fight for her!
Scene 72, Clip 15, Speaker Character_N: Nick stood there, his fists clenched, his breathing ragged. He looked like a cornered animal, ready to lash out at anyone who got close.
Scene 73, Clip 3, Speaker Character_N: P, he said, stopping suddenly and staring at me. They want us to kill her. That's what it is. Removing the machine is killing her. I can't do that.
Scene 73, Clip 6, Speaker Character_N: What if they're wrong? he whispered, his eyes wide and wet. What if she wakes up? What if she's trapped inside her mind, screaming for us to help?
Scene 73, Clip 8, Speaker Character_N: But she's our mother! he choked out, his voice cracking. We're supposed to protect her! I'm supposed to protect both of you! That's what I do!
Scene 73, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: Nick didn't push me away. He grabbed onto my shirt, burying his face in my shoulder, and sobbed. He wept with a raw, gasping grief that shook his entire body.
Scene 73, Clip 17, Speaker Character_N: He slowly pulled back, wiping his face with his sleeve. He looked at me, his eyes bloodshot but clear of the anger. Okay, P, he whispered. Okay.
Scene 74, Clip 4, Speaker Character_N: The quiet was deafening. The thick plastic tube was removed, and for a second, her chest was completely still. I held my breath, waiting.
Scene 74, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: The doctor checked her eyes and her chest, then looked up at us. Time of death, 10:42 AM, he said softly. I am so sorry for your loss, boys.
Scene 75, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: Sit down, P, she whispered, guiding me to the kitchen table. You need to rest. You haven't slept in thirty-six hours. Sit with me.
Scene 75, Clip 13, Speaker Character_S: She stayed there, a quiet, fierce presence, keeping the dark shadows of the empty house from swallowing me completely.
Scene 77, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: Nick stood up, stumbling slightly, and pointed a finger at me. You think you're better than me, don't you? With your college classes and your pretty girlfriend!
Scene 77, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: He roared, a wild, animal sound, and slammed his whiskey bottle down. It missed the table, hitting Ma's favorite ceramic lamp and shattering it into a thousand pieces.
Scene 77, Clip 9, Speaker Character_N: Why didn't you save her, P? Nick screamed, tears springing to his wild eyes. You're the smart one! Why didn't you do something? Why did you let her die?
Scene 77, Clip 14, Speaker Character_S: Nick, stop! Sionna screamed, running forward to grab his leather sleeve. Let him go! You're hurting him! Nick, please!
Scene 77, Clip 15, Speaker Character_N: Nick shoved her back, not hard, but enough to send her stumbling against the wall. Leave us alone, Sionna! he roared. This is between me and my brother!
Scene 77, Clip 16, Speaker Character_N: He turned back to me, shaking me by my collar, his teeth bared in a snarl. I should have broken your neck years ago, P! You're a coward! A useless coward!
Scene 78, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: Nick rolled on top of me, Pinning my shoulders to the floor with his massive weight. He raised his heavy fist, ready to smash my face in.
Scene 78, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: He sobbed with a raw, gasping heartbreak that shook his entire frame. He wasn't the brawler anymore. He was just a boy who had lost his mother.
Scene 79, Clip 7, Speaker Character_N: I'm sorry about the table, P, he said quietly, not looking at me. I'll buy a new one before I go. I nodded. Don't worry about it, Nick. It was old anyway.
Scene 79, Clip 9, Speaker Character_N: I smiled, taking a sip of my coffee. You're not so bad yourself, Nick. Even if you are a mean son of a bitch. He laughed, a quiet, genuine sound.
Scene 79, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: Where are you going? I asked. He shrugged. Up north. Maybe work on an oil rig, or a barge on the Mississippi. Somewhere big. Somewhere quiet.
Scene 80, Clip 5, Speaker Character_N: There's nothing left for me here, he said, his voice quiet. The bar is slow, the guys are getting old, and... Ma is gone. The house is empty.
Scene 80, Clip 9, Speaker Character_N: He walked out of his room and stood in front of me in the hallway. P, he said, looking straight into my eyes. You're the smart one. You know that, right?
Scene 80, Clip 10, Speaker Character_N: You're the one who is going to do great things. You're going to write books, go to graduate school, make something of yourself. Don't waste it.
Scene 80, Clip 12, Speaker Character_N: Yes, you are, he said, his voice a gravelly whisper. You have a beautiful mind, P. Ma knew it. I knew it. That's why I always fought for you.
Scene 80, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: I wanted to keep you clean. I wanted you to have the chances I never had. I did some bad things, P, but protecting you was the best thing I ever did.
Scene 81, Clip 8, Speaker Character_N: He pulled back, his light brown eyes shining with pride. Keep your nose in the books, P. You're going to be a real writer. I know it.
Scene 81, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: See you around, kid, he called out. He slid into the driver's seat, and the heavy metal door clicked shut with a solid, familiar thud.
Scene 82, Clip 3, Speaker Character_S: Sionna wouldn't let me stay in the dark. She walked over and yanked the blinds open. The bright, beautiful spring daylight poured inside like a flood.
Scene 82, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: You need to eat, P, she said gently, her light blue eyes filled with soft concern. You've lost five pounds this week. Just a few spoonfuls. For me.
Scene 82, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: I took a sip of the warm broth. My stomach was knotted, but the warmth felt good, melting a little piece of the ice inside my chest.
Scene 82, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: What if I'm not the smart one? What if I fail? What if I'm just a brawler who uses words instead of fists? I don't know who I am without them.
Scene 82, Clip 10, Speaker Character_S: You are exactly who Nick and Ma believed you are. You have a beautiful mind, and you have a story to tell. Their story. Your story.
Scene 82, Clip 12, Speaker Character_S: I looked at her, her words cutting through the thick fog of my depression like a hot scalpel. The truth of it hit me in my chest.
Scene 82, Clip 15, Speaker Character_S: Okay, I whispered, my voice steady. Okay, Sionna. I'll write it. I'll write everything. The bar, the fights, the Pontiac, Ma... all of it.
Scene 84, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: Her presence was a quiet anchor, keeping me from drifting away into the grey fog of my memories. We were two young people, building a future.
Scene 85, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: Sionna didn't say a single word. She just sat beside me, her light blue eyes wide, staring at my face, listening to every syllable.
Scene 85, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: I read about the Pontiac's roar, the smell of wet pine, and the silent, unbreakable bond of our blood. The words felt alive, breathing in the room.
Scene 85, Clip 10, Speaker Character_S: I sat there, my heart pounding, looking down at the leather cover, terrified of what she would say. The silence stretched for three seconds, four, five.
Scene 85, Clip 13, Speaker Character_S: Ma would have loved it so much. And Nick... you've made him a king, P. You've written him exactly as he is – a warrior who loved us.
Scene 86, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: We're almost done, she smiled, pointing at the stack of cardboard boxes by the door. Just one more trip in the Civic. I nodded, smiling back.
Scene 86, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: Is that true, P? Are you a real writer now? I swallowed the sudden lump in my throat, a warm tear of pride in my eye. Yeah, Nick. It's true.
Scene 86, Clip 14, Speaker Character_N: Nick was quiet for a second over the static, then I heard a ragged, emotional breath. I knew it, P, he whispered, his voice cracking with pride.
Scene 86, Clip 15, Speaker Character_N: I always knew you'd do it. Ma knew it too. I'm so proud of you, big bro. You're the smart one. You made us proud. You did your job.
Scene 86, Clip 16, Speaker Character_N: Thanks, Nick, I whispered, tears of joy streaming down my cheeks. I couldn't have written a word without you. You're the hero of the story, Nick.
Scene 87, Clip 5, Speaker Character_S: I looked at her instead. Her face was painted in the golden sunset light, her short brown hair catching the warm breeze. She looked like an angel.
Scene 87, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: God is just energy, she had said. It's in all of us, it existed before time, and it goes on forever. Standing here, I finally understood it.
Scene 87, Clip 10, Speaker Character_S: And Nick's energy... it was up in Alaska, fighting the cold, brawling with the wind, living with a fierce, wild independent freedom. He was alive.
Scene 87, Clip 12, Speaker Character_S: I looked back at the lake. The golden path of light on the water seemed to stretch all the way to the horizon, an endless bridge into the future.
Scene 88, Clip 7, Speaker Character_S: Sionna walked into the studio. She was wearing a white knit sweater, her short brown hair styled beautifully, her light blue eyes full of pride.
Scene 88, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: She carried a steaming ceramic mug of jasmine tea. She placed it gently beside my keyboard and leaned down, wrapping her arms around my neck.
Scene 88, Clip 9, Speaker Character_S: She kissed my temple, her jasmine scent familiar, warm, and comforting. You did it, P, she whispered in my ear. You finished the story.
Scene 88, Clip 11, Speaker Character_S: She smiled, a beautiful, radiant expression, and wiped my tear with her thumb. No, P. You saved your own life. With your words. I'm so proud of you.
Scene 88, Clip 13, Speaker Character_S: I stood up and wrapped my arms around her waist, pulling her close. We stood in the center of the studio, bathed in the soft afternoon daylight.
Scene 88, Clip 14, Speaker Character_S: I had spent ten years analyzing, writing, and reliving the nightmare. But standing here, holding the woman I loved, I knew the nightmare was gone.
Scene 89, Clip 6, Speaker Character_S: He carried the weight of our survival on his broad shoulders, carrying bags of stolen wood and cheese, so I could study under a desk lamp.
Scene 89, Clip 9, Speaker Character_N: I don't know when I'll see him again. Alaska is vast, and he's got a lot of cold wind to fight before his energy slows down. He's on his path.
Scene 89, Clip 10, Speaker Character_N: But I know he's happy. I can hear it in his laugh, loud, rough, and free under the snowy mountains. He's doing his job. He's being Nick.
Scene 89, Clip 11, Speaker Character_N: We are still bound together by that same ancient energy Ma gave us, the strongest force in our world. It doesn't care about time or space.
Scene 89, Clip 12, Speaker Character_N: It existed before we were born, and it will go on forever. It's in the ink on my page, the static on the phone, and the sun on Lake Michigan.
Scene 89, Clip 13, Speaker Character_N: I look at my finished book, and I don't feel grief anymore. I feel a deep, burning gratitude. I am Ma's boy. I am Nick's little brother.
Scene 90, Clip 8, Speaker Character_S: A single white sailboat glided across the calm water in the distance, its sails catching the golden breeze, moving quiet and free toward the horizon.
